




Animals - Stardew Valley Wiki




































Animals

From Stardew Valley Wiki



Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Contents

1 Cat or Dog
2 Horse
3 Animal Care

3.1 Friendship
3.2 Mood
3.3 Produce

3.3.1 Deluxe and Large Products

3.3.1.1 Duck Feathers and Rabbit Feet
3.3.1.2 Large Eggs and Milk


3.3.2 Quality


3.4 Housing
3.5 Food
3.6 Animals Trapped Outside
3.7 Wild Animal Attacks
3.8 Animal Births


4 Selling Animals
5 Coop Animals

5.1 Chickens
5.2 Ducks
5.3 Rabbits
5.4 Dinosaurs


6 Barn Animals

6.1 Cows
6.2 Goats
6.3 Sheep
6.4 Pigs
6.5 Ostriches


7 Slime Hutch
8 Other Animals

8.1 Butterflies
8.2 Crows
8.3 Fireflies
8.4 Owls
8.5 Seagulls


9 Bugs
10 References
11 History



Animals fulfill several roles on the farm. Some are wildlife, which cannot be interacted with. A pet (cat or dog) can be earned which the player can form a friendship with. A horse can be purchased to ride. And "farm animals" can be purchased which serve as a source of various kinds of produce, providing resources and profit.
Farm animals require a building to house them. These may be obtained from Robin at the Carpenter's Shop, and usually require three days each to build. Baby farm animals (and related equipment needed for harvesting produce) can then be purchased from Marnie's Ranch. Animals may also be hatched from an Incubator. As soon as an animal is acquired, it must be assigned to an existing farm building of the right type, which is designated as its home. Each building has a limit to the number of animals it can house. Animals can be assigned to a different building by first petting it and then interacting with it a second time. A pop-up box appears that allows the reassignment to be made.
Baby farm animals must first mature into adults before they are able to produce animal products. Each morning, adult animals that live in coops (chickens, ducks, rabbits and dinosaurs) have a chance of producing products that can be gathered from the floor of their building. Using the Milk Pail, cows can usually be milked daily, and goats can usually be milked once every two days. Sheep can be shorn with the Shears when their wool grows in, and pigs can be let outside to dig up truffles that then be picked up from the barnyard. 

Cat or Dog
The player is allowed to adopt either a cat or a dog, depending on which was chosen on the character creation screen. There are three different styles of cat and three different styles of dog.

































A cutscene will trigger where Marnie will be waiting outside the farm's door with a dog or cat on the first sunny Wednesday or Friday morning in Spring after earning 1,000g. The Farmhouse must be exited between 6am and 9:30am to trigger this event. By the 20th of Spring the event will trigger, regardless of if the player made enough money. Adopting the pet is optional. Any name can be chosen for the pet the moment it is adopted, though its name cannot be changed after adopting it. If the player has not yet met Marnie before this cutscene, the meeting will count as an introduction.
The pet has a maximum friendship of 1000, increasing by 12 every time it is pet. Every 200 points is equal to 1 level, and having 999 friendship points will make the player eligible for 1 point in Grandpa's Evaluation. Click on the pet once each day to pet it. 
After reaching 1000 friendship points with the pet, the following message pops up: " <Animal Name> loves you ♡"   Other than this message, there is no way to check friendship with the pet in-game.
There is a bowl on some wooden tiles somewhere on the farm. It is on top left area next to the house on the standard, forest, wilderness, hilltop, and riverland farm. It is on the intersection of the different sections on the four corners farm, and right above the right shore on the beach farm. It can be filled with water for the pet. Watering the pet's bowl will result in the pet's friendship increasing by 6 points by next morning. Note that this will not trigger if it is raining the next morning.  On rainy days, the pet's bowl will automatically be full.  If it rains before adopting a pet, the bowl will remain full until adopting a pet.
There is no mechanism for pet friendship to decrease.  Ignoring the pet or using a slingshot on it will not decrease friendship.
After earning 4 hearts of Friendship with the Wizard, the player can enter his basement and change the style of cat or dog at the Shrine of Illusions for 500g. The pet cannot be changed from cat to dog or vice-versa.





Empty pet bowl






Full pet bowl






From Dev Blog #29






From Dev Blog #29




Horse

The horse is an in-game mount that boosts movement speed by 30% (increased by drinking coffee), and doesn't slow down while riding through crops on the farm. It's obtained by purchasing the Stable from the Carpenter's Shop, and can be named the first time the player tries riding it.
Leaving the  horse somewhere will result in it waiting for the player and on their return one of these messages will be shown: "<Horse name> is wondering where you've been" or "Your loyal horse waits patiently for your return". Going to bed after leaving the horse outside the farm, will result in the horse automatically finding its way home and in the stable the next morning.
The horse can't travel through small gaps (except gates) when travelling vertically.
These can be interacted with while mounted on the horse:

Gate: can be opened and closed.
Coop and Barn: animal doors can be opened and closed.
Shipping Bin: items can be placed inside.
Fish Pond: can collect items, add fish, add quest items, change appearance and empty pond.
Villagers: can speak to villagers.
The Horse Flute can be used to warp the horse to the player. It only works outdoors (including Ginger Island and the Desert).
Hats can be placed on horses.

Animal Care
Friendship

Animals that live in barns and coops have a friendship rating that can be seen by right-clicking the animal after petting (while holding hay, this window cannot be opened). The rating is out of 5 hearts, is shown in half-heart increments, and is taken into account when deciding how likely that animal is to produce higher-quality products if that animal is capable of producing them in the first place.
Each half-heart is equivalent to 100 points of friendship, making the maximum value of Friendship 1000. 
Actions that affect friendship are as follows:

Petting (+15, or +30 if player has Shepherd or Coopmaster and animal is of relevant type)
Milking or Shearing (+5, No penalty for not being milked or sheared)
Eating Grass Outside (+8)


Not Fed (-20 Calculated day-end)
Trapped outside overnight (-20 Calculated day-end)
Not Pet/Talked to (-5 to -10, Calculated day-end by the formula: (10 - (CurrentFriendship / 200))). This means they will lose less friendship if they are already at high friendship.
Mood
Like friendship, an animal's current mood can be checked by right-clicking after petting the animal.
Mood is a very important factor when determining animal product quality and type. It is only taken into account when the game rolls animal produce at the beginning of the day, and has no effect otherwise.
Mood is a value from 0 to 255. Its current value can be estimated from the message in the animals right click dialogue:

<Animal Name> looks really happy today! indicates Mood is at least 200 and at most 255.
<Animal Name> looks fine. indicates Mood is at least 30 and less than 200.
<Animal Name> looks sad. indicates Mood is at least 0 and less than 30.

Actions that affect Mood are as follows (every 10 minutes refers to ingame minutes):
Increases mood:

Eating Grass Outside (Sets Mood to 255)
Petting (+32 to +36 dependent on animal type, double amount if player has chosen the Shepherd or Coopmaster Profession and the animal is of the relevant type)
The Season is Winter and the animal is in an area with a Heater, and has mood 150 or higher (+4 to +8 every 10 minutes past 6pm the Player stays awake, up to 255. Only one heater required. overrides all other "every 10 minutes" effects)
Animal was fed (+4 to +16, dependent on animal type, Calculated when the Player sleeps, checks whether the animal ate either hay or grass)
Animal outside after 6pm, but before 7pm, and has less than 150 Mood (+4 to +8 every 10 minutes, does not stack with any other "every 10 minutes" effect)
Decreases mood:

Animal outside in the rain or Winter (-4 to -8 every 10 minutes, does not stack with any other "every 10 minutes" effect)
Animal outside past 7pm (-4 to -8 every 10 minutes, does not stack with any other "every 10 minutes" effect)
Animal slept outside (-Half of current Mood, Calculated when the Player sleeps)
Animal was not petted (-20 to -40, dependent on animal type, Calculated when the Player sleeps)
Animal was not fed (-100, Calculated when the Player sleeps)
Produce
New animals must grow to adulthood before they start producing anything.  Each animal type has a different amount of days required before they will be able to make a product. For example, cows and chickens can produce milk and eggs every day, and goats generally produce milk every other day.  Animals who can produce a Deluxe/Large product will sometimes produce more frequently, however (see "Special case" below.)
If the animal has met the required amount of days to create their product, some additional checks will be made to determine if they will actually produce.

If the animal was not fed, it will not produce.
If the animal has less than 70 Mood, there is a chance it will not produce. The lower the mood, the less likely it will produce. (The percent chance it will still produce is equal to Mood/70)
Whether an animal produces a Deluxe or Large product, and the quality of the products, is determined at the very beginning of the day by some randomness as well as a combination of Mood and Friendship.

If an animal has 150 Mood or above, it will gain the ability to produce Quality and Large or Deluxe products. (Note, this is just the ability, the actual chance for these items is covered in the sections below, Quality and Large/Deluxe products are not guaranteed)
If an animal is below 150 Mood, it still has a chance to have the ability to produce Quality and Large or Deluxe products. The lower the mood, the less likely. (The percent chance to gain the ability is equal to Mood/150)
Special case: If an animal meets the requirement to produce something, but does not gain the ability to create a Quality or Large/Deluxe product, the game will not register the fact that it produced an item that day. In this case, animals that normally would take multiple days to produce, will produce again immediately the next day.

Deluxe and Large Products
A "Mood Modifier" is calculated when rolling for whether Deluxe produce (Large products, Duck Feathers, and Rabbit feet) will be created in the following ways:

If Mood is more than 200, it will be multiplied by 1.5
If Mood is 100 or less, then "Mood Modifier" will be the animal's mood minus 100 (This will always result in a negative or zero modifier)
Otherwise "Mood Modifier" is Zero (Mood is higher than 100, and up to 200)
This "Mood Modifier" will be used in different ways depending on the animal.

Duck Feathers and Rabbit Feet
Ducks and rabbits will take into account the Daily Luck to determine if they will create their Deluxe produce.
For each rabbit, an overall score is created using the following formula: (Friendship + Mood × Mood Modifier)/5000 + Daily Luck
For each duck, an overall score is created using the following formula: (Friendship + Mood × Mood Modifier)/4750 + Daily Luck
For example, a rabbit with 600 Friendship (3 Hearts), 150 Mood, and 0.10 Daily Luck, would be calculated as:
 =(600 + (150 × 0))/5000 + 0.10
=(600 + 0)/5000 + 0.10
=0.22
Each time a product is rolled, a random number between 0-1 is rolled against this score. If the overall score is higher than the random number, a Deluxe product will be created. At max Friendship, Mood, and Luck, there is a 40% chance of getting a Rabbit's Foot and a 42% chance of getting a Duck Feather.

Large Eggs and Milk
For animals to produce a Large product, the game will take Mood and Friendship into account.
Only animals with 200 or higher friendship can produce Large products.
Each animal will have an overall score created with the following formula: (Friendship + Mood Modifier)/1200
For example, an animal with 600 Friendship (3 Hearts) and 210 Mood would be calculated as:
 =((600 + (210*1.5))/1200
=(600+315)/1200
=0.7625
Each time a product is rolled, a number between 0-1 is chosen randomly. If the overall score is higher than the random number, a Large product will be created. In our example there is a 76% chance of a large product. An overall score of at least 1200 will guarantee a Large product.

Quality
If the animal has the ability to produce a Quality item, it will roll for quality from normal to iridium.
Each animal will have an overall score created with the following formula: ((Friendship/1000) - (1 - (Mood/225))
For example, an animal with 600 Friendship (3 Hearts) and 150 Mood would be calculated thus:
=((600/1000) - (1 - (150/225))
=0.6 - (1 - 0.666...)
=0.6 - 0.333...
=0.266... 
If the player has the Shepherd or Coopmaster Profession, 0.333 will be added to the score for any barn animals or coop animals respectively.
The game will begin checking what quality to create by first seeing if the score value is above 0.95. If it is, the score divided by 2 will be compared against a random number between 0-1. If the score divided by 2 is greater than the random number, the item will be Iridium quality.

In our given example, a score of 0.266... is not above 0.95; the item would not be able to become Iridium.
If an Iridium quality item is not produced, the score divided by 2 will be compared against a random number between 0-1. If the score divided by 2 is greater than the random number, the item will be Gold quality.

In our given example, a score of 0.266... would be divided by 2 to become 0.133...; the item would have a 13% chance to become Gold quality.
If a Gold quality item is not produced, the score will be compared against a random number between 0-1. If it is greater than the random number, the item will be Silver quality.

In our given example, if the item was not Gold, it would have a 26.6% chance to be Silver quality.
If the item is not Silver quality, it will be Normal quality.

Housing
Buildings can be purchased from the Carpenter's Shop, and will be completed in 3 days. Once placed, buildings can be moved around at the Carpenter's Shop as well.
Barns, Coops and Slime Hutches house animals, Silos store hay, and the Stable unlocks the Horse.
If 2 or more Coops or Barns are built, animals can be relocated by clicking on the animal and choosing the house icon.

Food
Farm animals who live in barns and coops need to eat every day, one "portion" per animal. They can eat either fresh grass (if allowed outside) or hay (if kept inside or are unable to find grass). They do not die if not fed, but become upset and cease production of animal products until feeding resumes. They do not need to be fed on a festival day (except the Night Market), though they will eat grass if left outside. No hay will be consumed if they are left inside.
Newly hatched, born, or purchased animals do not need to be fed on the day they arrive on the farm, but baby animals thereafter need to eat one "portion" (the same as adults) each day. If they don't have food, they do not grow on that day.
Farm animals prefer fresh grass over hay, and become "very happy today!" (the best mood) upon eating fresh grass. They will not go out in winter, or when it is rainy, stormy, or snowy. Animals that remain inside or do not find grass to eat will eat hay instead, if it is available. Given that growing animal food is nearly impossible in Winter (all Grass and Wheat on the Farm disappears on Winter 1), it is advisable to prepare by harvesting as much Hay as possible in Fall.
Slimes in a Slime Hutch need no food, but their troughs can be filled daily with water from the watering can or automatically with a sprinkler.  If watered, they will produce Slime Balls the next day.
Horses and pets do not need to eat, but pets will be happier once the water bowl is filled each day.

Animals Trapped Outside
Animals that do go outside normally return to their buildings by 6pm to sleep. Closing the barn doors again in the evening prevents them from leaving immediately in the morning to eat grass, before the player has time to pet and tend to them the next day. Closing the door before all the animals have returned will result in the ones left out overnight vulnerable to wild animal attacks.
The exact conditions that cause an animal to be trapped outside are not clear.  It may be more likely for an animal to be trapped outside if the player does not leave the farm after 5pm (when animals begin to return to the barn/coop) and does not enter the barn/coop after 5pm.  (Leaving the farm and entering the barn/coop after 5pm both causes animals to transport or spawn to the inside of the barn/coop automatically).  It may also be more likely to happen if the player goes to bed before 5pm.   
If it rains the next day, and the animal was left out, the animal will stay outside in the rain. This is the only instance in which a farm animal will be outside during the rain.  Similarly, if an animal is trapped outside on the night of Fall 28, the animal will stay outside on Winter 1.
An animal left outside its barn/coop will be grumpy the next day.





Grumpy animal






Animal in the rain






Animal outside in winter




Wild Animal Attacks
 Animal after attack
If an animal has been trapped outside (see previous section) with the barn or coop doors closed, there is a chance they will be attacked by a wild animal during the night.[1]
After the player goes to sleep, any events that will happen during the night (such as Bundle events) are calculated as normal. If no events are due to occur, there will be a 50% chance that the game will attempt to start a wild animal attack event. If this event proceeds, the game will go through all buildings to find a barn or coop that has their doors closed and has animals left outside.
For each building, the game takes a random number between 0 and 1 and compares it to 1/(the number of total farm buildings). If the random number is larger, the building is ignored. In other words, the more buildings the player has, the less likely that one will be attacked. For example, if the player has two farm buildings, each building has a 50% chance of being attacked, three buildings would give 33%, four would give 25% chance of being attacked, etc.
Once a building has been chosen, the event takes the first animal stuck outside from that building to be the target of the attack. The animal will be removed from the game and in the morning, all other animals will have a mood message saying "<animal name> looks stressed and paranoid today. It seems like something bad happened last night." Besides this message, the other animals are unaffected.

Animal Births
Similar to animal attacks, if there are no other events occurring in the night, there will be a 50% chance that the game will attempt an animal birth event. The game searches through all buildings for an upgraded Barn that isn't full. The game then makes another check where there is a 0.55% * (the number of animals inside) chance of proceeding with the event. For example, an upgraded barn with three animals inside would have a 1.65% chance of passing this check. If the building fails this check, the game will continue going through all buildings until none are left.
If a barn passes all these checks, a random animal inside is chosen. If the animal is not a baby and has pregnancy enabled, that animal will give birth.

Selling Animals
To sell a coop or barn animal, right-click the animal after petting. The friendship/mood interface appears. Move the cursor over the gold coin button at the right to see how much the animal can be sold for. Click that button and the confirmation that follows to complete the sale.
The sell price of a farm animal is Price * ((Friendship / 1000) + 0.3).[2]
"Price" is read from the game's data file Data/FarmAnimals.xnb.

Coop Animals
These animals cannot be purchased until a Coop is built on the farm, and must occupy a spot in a coop. They will leave their products inside the coop each morning.

Chickens



Warning: Spoilers
This page or section contains unmarked spoilers from update 1.5 of Stardew Valley.  Mobile players may want to avoid or be cautious toward reading this article.

Main article: Chicken
Adult chickens will produce eggs every morning if fed. Happier chickens may produce larger, more valuable eggs. 



Image

Name

Cost

Produces

5 Heart Selling Price




Chicken

800g

 Egg - 50g Large Egg - 95g

1,040g




Chicken

800g

 Brown Egg - 50g Large Brown Egg - 95g

1,040g




Chicken

800g

 Egg - 50g Large Egg - 95g

1,040g




Void Chicken

N/A

 Void Egg - 65g

1,040g




Golden Chicken

N/A

 Golden Egg - 500g

1,040g

Whether a white or brown chicken is received when purchasing from Marnie is random.
After seeing Shane's 8-heart event, each chicken purchased from Marnie or a brown or white egg being hatched in an Incubator has a 25% chance of being blue. Aside from appearance, blue chickens are identical to white chickens.
A White, Brown, or Blue (if blue has been unlocked) Chicken can be received from incubating an egg of either type (White or Brown).
A Void Chicken must be hatched from a Void Egg in an Incubator. There are three ways to obtain a Void Egg. In a random event after sleeping, a Witch will fly over one of the Big or Deluxe Chicken Coops, leaving a Void Egg in the morning.  Alternatively, a Void Egg can be purchased from Krobus for 5,000g in The Sewers.  Shane may also gift a Void Egg if married to him. 
To obtain Golden Eggs and Golden Chickens, Perfection must be reached. After that, a Golden Egg can be purchased from Marnie's Ranch for 100,000g, Qi's Walnut Room for  100, or during the Witch event.

Ducks
Main article: Duck
Adult ducks will lay an egg or drop a Duck Feather every other day. Happier ducks have a higher chance to produce a Duck Feather instead of an egg.



Image

Name

Cost

Requirements

Produces

5 Heart Selling Price




Duck

1,200g

Big Coop

Duck Egg - 95g Duck Feather - 250g

1,560g

Rabbits
Main article: Rabbit

Happy adult rabbits will produce Wool every 4 days. Rabbits will drop wool on their own. Happier rabbits have a higher chance to produce a Rabbit's Foot instead.

Image

Name

Cost

Requirements

Produces

5 Heart Selling Price




Rabbit

8,000g

Deluxe Coop

 Wool - 340g Rabbit's Foot - 565g

10,400g

Dinosaurs
Main article: Dinosaur
To obtain a Dinosaur, a Dinosaur Egg must be found, and then placed in an Incubator.  In approximately 12.5 days, a Dinosaur will hatch.
The Dinosaur acts like any other coop animal, but it lays a Dinosaur Egg every 7 days and makes no sound.



Image

Name

Cost

Requirements

Produces

5 Heart Selling Price




Dinosaur

N/A

Big Coop

 Dinosaur Egg - 350g

1,300g

Barn Animals
These animals cannot be purchased until a Barn is built on the farm, and must occupy a spot in a barn. Their products are either gathered with a tool, or in the case of pigs, left on the ground outside while grazing.
Barn animals may become pregnant at random if the pregnancy option is enabled on their status menu.  This is opened by interacting with the animal after petting it. An icon to the right of the menu can be toggled to allow pregnancy for that animal.  If an animal becomes pregnant, during the night a message box will pop up saying an animal gave birth.  The game will then prompt the player to choose a name for the new animal. For pregnancy to happen the player needs to have upgraded to at least a Big Barn and have enough room for another animal.

Cows
Main article: Cow

Adult Cows will produce Milk daily. If they reach higher friendship, they will produce Large Milk, which is much more valuable. Milk is collected with a Milk Pail.

Image

Name

Cost

Produces

5 Heart Selling Price




Cow

1,500g

 Milk - 125g Large Milk - 190g

1,950g




Cow

1,500g

1,950g


Goats
Main article: Goat
Goats typically produce milk every other day. Like with cows, milk from goats may be harvested with a Milk Pail



Image

Name

Cost

Requirements

Produces

5 Heart Selling Price




Goat

4,000g

Big Barn

 Goat Milk - 225g Large Goat Milk - 345g

5,200g

Sheep
Main article: Sheep
Sheep can be shorn when their coat grows in. Shears can be purchased at Marnie's Ranch.
A sheep will normally grow in its coat every 3rd day if it has been fed and has at least 70 happiness. 
If the player has 900 or more Friendship with the sheep and has pet it at least one time, it will reduce it to every other day. 
If the player also has the Shepherd profession, it will reduce the time required to regrow by an extra day, making a sheep grow its coat every single day.



Image

Name

Cost

Requirements

Produces

5 Heart Selling Price




Sheep

8,000g

Deluxe Barn

 Wool - 340g

10,400g

Pigs
Main article: Pig


Image

Name

Cost

Requirements

Produces

5 Heart Selling Price




Pig

16,000g

Deluxe Barn

 Truffle - 625g

20,800g

Pigs will find Truffles after being let outdoors. Truffles can be used in the Oil Maker to make Truffle Oil.
Collection will be affected by Foraging skill, allowing the player to gather iridium quality Truffles with a chance of double harvest.
During Winter, pigs will not produce Truffles since they don't leave the barn.

Ostriches



Warning: Spoilers
This page or section contains unmarked spoilers from update 1.5 of Stardew Valley.  Mobile players may want to avoid or be cautious toward reading this article.

Main article: Ostrich


Image

Name

Cost

Requirements

Produces

5 Heart Selling Price




Ostrich

N/A

Barn

 Ostrich Egg - 600g

20,800g

Slime Hutch
See: Slime Hutch
Other Animals
Many animals can be seen throughout the game, but cannot be interacted with, such as rabbits, squirrels, frogs, crows, woodpeckers, sparrows, butterflies, etc. Squirrels may occasionally cause Hazelnuts or other tree seeds to fall to the ground, and rabbits can knock berries from bushes during Salmonberry or Blackberry season. Some "other" animals are described below.

Butterflies

Butterflies are abundant, and come in many colors, though they can only be seen outdoors in warm weather. To see butterflies, shake or chop trees, or place a Butterfly Hutch.

Crows
Every night, there is a chance that crows will eat crops[3] on The Farm.  Crows will not eat crops grown from wild seeds, seeds themselves (i.e., crops planted that day), or crops within range of one or more scarecrows.
For every 16 crops (rounded down), a crow may try to eat a crop. This is maxed at 4 crows.
Each crow has a 30% chance of attempting to eat. A crow attempting to eat a crop will try 10 times to find an eligible crop. A crow chooses a random tile on the farm that is either tilled, contains a tree, contains grass, or has flooring on it. (Note: This is done after overnight un-tilling[4]) If this tile contains a crop that has grown beyond seeds, the crow will stop looking. If the crop is in range of a scarecrow, the crow will be scared off. Otherwise the crow will eat the crop.  Note that crows will eat dead crops leftover from previous seasons.
Each crow will only eat one crop, but may continue to hop around and peck at the ground afterwards.  This animation is purely cosmetic.
Before scarecrows are unlocked, the only way to ensure no crows appear is to plant at most 15 crops at a time.  This implies that the initial 15 Parsnip Seeds provided by Lewis can all be safely planted; harvesting them gives the player enough experience to reach Farming level 1 and unlock scarecrows. However, planting just one additional crop (even wild seeds, or a crop at the seed stage) can trigger crows.
Note that there are no crows on the Ginger Island farm, so this section does not apply to crops that are planted there.


Fireflies
During the summer, fireflies can be seen everywhere at night, particularly in Cindersap Forest. They create a small glow of light around them.


Owls
 Owls as they can only be seen in the data file.
Owls can be seen only at night. In Spring and Summer, they can appear starting at 8pm; in Fall at 7pm, and in Winter at 6pm. There is a 1% chance for an owl to appear every 10 in-game minutes. [5]


Seagulls
Seagulls appear at the beach. They can be seen floating in the water, doing nothing, or cleaning themselves with their beak. When on the ground, they may also move slightly in the direction they're facing by hopping.
Should the player get too close, they will fly away.


Bugs
If the pet is in position to block movement up the path to the backwoods while the player is riding a horse, the pet will not move to allow the player through.
It is possible to easily glitch through one-tile-wide objects (like fences, sprinklers, or scarecrows) while riding the horse. Just ride vertically alongside the object, then turn 90° into the object. Horse riding bug 1 Horse riding bug 2
Placing the horse behind the Ice Cream Stand when nobody is there lets the player buy ice-cream. This can be done at any time or season, but the horse must be behind the top of the parasol.
References

↑ See SoundInTheNightEvent::SetUp and SoundInTheNightEvent::makeChangesToLocation in the game code.

↑ See FarmAnimal::getSellPrice in the game code.

↑ See Farm::addCrows in the game code.

↑ See Farm::dayUpdate in the game code.

↑ See GameLocation::tryToAddCritters in the game code.


History
1.3.27: Fixed bug causing animal happiness to decrease if the player stayed up after 6pm.  Added ability to place hats on horses.
1.4: Added 2 new styles of cat and 2 new styles of dog.  Made pet style changeable at Shrine of Illusions.  Added ability to remove hats from horses.  Removed exploit allowing wallpaper #108 to be used in an incubator in place of a Dinosaur Egg.  Rain now fills the pet bowl.  Sales of animals now count towards game's total earnings.
1.4.3: Fixed a bug where naming a pet the same name as an NPC would cause the pet to appear in place of the NPC on the calendar.
1.5: Duck purchase price reduced from 4000g to 1200g.  Duck Feather sell price increased from 125g to 250g.  Duck feather drop rate increased.  Pets no longer block construction of new buildings. Sprinklers can now water troughs in a Slime Hutch.
1.5.4: Duck sell price reduced.


Animals and Produce


Coop

Chicken (Egg • Large Egg • Brown Egg • Large Brown Egg) • Dinosaur (Dinosaur Egg) • Duck (Duck Egg • Duck Feather) • Golden Chicken (Golden Egg) • Rabbit (Wool • Rabbit's Foot) • Void Chicken (Void Egg)


Barn

Cow (Milk • Large Milk) • Goat (Goat Milk • Large Goat Milk) • Sheep (Wool) • Ostrich (Ostrich Egg) • Pig (Truffle)


Fish Pond

Fish (Roe)


Slime Hutch

Slimes (Slime • Slime Ball • Slime Egg)


Other

Cat • Dog • Horse





Retrieved from "https://stardewvalleywiki.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=Animals&oldid=141966"
Category: AnimalsHidden categories: SpoilersBugs tested in 1.5



Navigation menu




Personal tools




Create accountLog in






Namespaces




PageDiscussion






Variants












Views




ReadView sourceView history






More









Search



















Navigation




Main pageRecent changesAdmin noticeboardHelp EditingRandom page





Official Links




Official SiteOfficial ForumsOfficial MerchandiseDiscordReddit





Tools




What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPrintable versionPermanent linkPage informationPage values





In other languages




DeutschEspañolFrançaisItaliano日本語한국어MagyarPortuguêsРусскийTürkçe中文






 This page was last edited on 27 September 2022, at 09:17.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike unless otherwise noted.


Privacy policy
About Stardew Valley Wiki
Disclaimers
Mobile view









