




Blacksmith - Stardew Valley Wiki








































Blacksmith

From Stardew Valley Wiki



Jump to navigation
Jump to search



Blacksmith








Open Hours:

9:00am to 4:00pm


Closed:

Friday, after Community Center restored and at 10:30 AM Winter 16


Address:

Across the town's river, to the bottom right


Occupants:

 Clint


This article is about the store and building. For the profession, see Mining#Mining Skill.
Clint's Blacksmith shop provides multiple services primarily related to resources found in the mines. It chiefly serves as a location for upgrading tools, and breaking open geodes, although he also trades in coal and ores (copper, iron, & gold). Finally, the building is also Clint's home, and his bedroom is out the back of the shop floor.

Contents

1 Stock

1.1 Selling


2 Upgrade Tools
3 Process Geodes
4 Tips
5 External Links
6 History


Stock
The purchase prices of ore and coal increase in year 2+. The player will receive a letter in the mail on Spring 1 of year 2 saying "Notice: The price of raw materials at Robin's shop and Clint's shop has increased." The gold obtained by selling items to Clint (or through the shipping bin) does not increase.



Item

Name

Description

Year 1Price

Year 2+Price




Copper Ore

A common ore that can be smelted into bars.

75g

150g




Iron Ore

A fairly common ore that can be smelted into bars.

150g

250g




Coal

A combustible rock that is useful for crafting and smelting.

150g

250g




Gold Ore

A precious ore that can be smelted into bars.

400g

750g

Selling
Similar to how it is possible to sell crops directly to Pierre, it is also possible to sell gems, minerals, ore, and bars directly to Clint. Note that Clint will not directly buy any kind of geodes (although it is possible to sell any ores they contain back to him).

Upgrade Tools
Clint can upgrade the four main tools and the Trash Can in the inventory menu incrementally. That is to say the previous quality of tool is required to upgrade it to the next level. It takes 2 days to upgrade a tool. While Clint is upgrading a tool, Blacksmith services are unavailable.  A notification will pop up on the left side of the screen on the morning a tool upgrade is ready.
Note that even when Blacksmith's shopfront itself is closed on festival days (although the door will not be shut for the Dance of the Moonlight Jellies in the Summer, and the Spirit's Eve festival in the Fall), Clint will still work on tools. If a player drops off a tool off the day before a festival, it will be ready the day after the festival as normal.
All Axe and Pickaxe upgrades reduce the number of hits necessary to remove trees and rocks.  In addition certain metal versions are able to break larger objects of their respective type (logs and stumps; or boulders and meteorites, respectively). Upgraded versions of the Watering Can and Hoe allow the player to water and till multiple squares of land in a single use (using click-and-hold). The trash can upgrades increase the autosell value of any objects placed into them up to 60%.



Image

Name

Ingredient

Cost


   

Copper Tool

 Copper Bar (5)

2,000g


   

Steel Tool

 Iron Bar (5)

5,000g


   

Gold Tool

 Gold Bar (5)

10,000g


   

Iridium Tool

 Iridium Bar (5)

25,000g



Image

Name

Ingredient

Cost




Copper Trash Can

 Copper Bar (5)

1,000g




Steel Trash Can

 Iron Bar (5)

2,500g




Gold Trash Can

 Gold Bar (5)

5,000g




Iridium Trash Can

 Iridium Bar (5)

12,500g

Process Geodes



Warning: Spoilers
This page or section contains unmarked spoilers from update 1.5 of Stardew Valley.  Mobile players may want to avoid or be cautious toward reading this article.

Clint can break open geodes for 25g.  Gems and Minerals can be found within, as well as common resources like Stone, Clay, and Coal.
If the sell price of the item inside the geode is 75g or less, a "clink" sound will be heard when it is broken open.  Otherwise a short melody will be heard and the item will sparkle.
Artifact Troves can be purchased from the Desert Trader for 5 Omni Geodes. Clint will break these open like a geode, but instead of minerals, artifacts or treasures can be found inside.



Image

Name

Description

Cost to Process




Geode

A blacksmith can break this open for you.

25g




Frozen Geode

A blacksmith can break this open for you.

25g




Magma Geode

A blacksmith can break this open for you.

25g




Omni Geode

A blacksmith can break this open for you. These geodes contain a wide variety of Minerals.

25g




Artifact Trove

A blacksmith can open this for you. These troves often contain ancient relics and curiosities.

25g




Golden Coconut

This is one tough nut to crack, but a professional might be able to break it open.

25g

Tips
To avoid missing a day of watering, water crops, then upgrade the Watering Can when the weather report indicates rain the next day. Crops will be watered the day the can is taken to the Blacksmith, the following day by the rain, and the can can be picked up the day after that. It can also be a good idea to upgrade the watering can near the end of a season, if there is nothing in the ground that will bear fruit until then.
Regarding coal prices, during year 1, it's cheaper to buy wood from the Carpenter's Shop and use a Charcoal Kiln to make coal than it is to buy coal from the Blacksmith's.  Conversely, starting in year 2, the price of wood increases from 10g to 50g, so it is cheaper to purchase coal.
At Mining Skill 7, it is cheaper to purchase Iron Ore, smelt Iron Bars, and use the Transmute (Au) recipe to create Gold Bars than it is to purchase Gold Ore and smelt it into Gold Bars.  This also cuts the smelting time from 5h to 2h per Furnace. This saves 350g per Gold Bar in the first year and 1,000g per Gold Bar in year 2+.
The minecart to town leaves just to the right of his shop. This makes it easy to travel there for whatever reason without traversing the rest of Pelican Town.
Although the door to the Blacksmith locks at 4pm, as long as the player is inside the building they can still interact with the counter after 4pm to make purchases, upgrade tools etc., even after Clint walks away from the counter at 5pm.
External Links
Users with access to their saved game files may find the "Stardew Predictor" utility helpful for predicting which items will be produced from breaking open geodes.  The utility is located at:  https://mouseypounds.github.io/stardew-predictor/

History
1.04:
Price of Copper Ore increased from 50g to 75g
Price of Iron Ore increased from 100g to 150g
Price of Coal increased from 100g to 150g
Price of Gold Ore increased from 300g to 400g
1.3.27:
Price of Copper Ore increases in year 2+ from 75g to 150g
Price of Iron Ore increases in year 2+ from 150g to 250g
Price of Coal increases in year 2+ from 150g to 250g
Price of Gold Ore increases in year 2+ from 400g to 750g
1.4: Added popup notification when upgraded tools are ready. Added Artifact Trove

1.5: Added Golden Coconuts


Buildings


Merchants

Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower


Houses

1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse


Farm Buildings

Farming

Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Shed  • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well


Special

Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk


Other Buildings

Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut




Retrieved from "https://stardewvalleywiki.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=Blacksmith&oldid=140891"
Categories: Town LocationsStoresHidden category: Spoilers



Navigation menu




Personal tools




Create accountLog in






Namespaces




PageDiscussion






Variants












Views




ReadView sourceView history






More









Search



















Navigation




Main pageRecent changesAdmin noticeboardHelp EditingRandom page





Official Links




Official SiteOfficial ForumsOfficial MerchandiseDiscordReddit





Tools




What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPrintable versionPermanent linkPage informationPage values





In other languages




DeutschEspañolFrançaisItaliano日本語한국어MagyarPortuguêsРусскийTürkçe中文






 This page was last edited on 13 August 2022, at 06:44.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike unless otherwise noted.


Privacy policy
About Stardew Valley Wiki
Disclaimers
Mobile view









