




Bouquet - Stardew Valley Wiki








































Bouquet

From Stardew Valley Wiki



Jump to navigation
Jump to search



Bouquet





A gift that shows your romantic interest.


Information 


Source:

Pierre's General Store


Season:

 All


Sell Price:

100g


The Bouquet is a special present you may give only to a marriage candidate with whom you have gained an 8-heart friendship.  A bouquet can be purchased at Pierre's General Store for 200g any time after reaching an 8-heart friendship with a marriage candidate.
Giving a bouquet to a marriage candidate indicates romantic interest and changes the recipient's status to "boyfriend" or "girlfriend" on the "Social" tab of the pause menu. You may give a bouquet to any or all qualified candidates, but only once to each. Giving a bouquet awards 25 friendship points, but does not count as a normal gift. It unfreezes the friendship level with each recipient, allowing it to increase to 10 hearts, and to decay. Note that pre-bouquet, friendship points with a marriage candidate can continue to increase to just below 9 hearts (2249 points).
Trying to give a bouquet to someone that is not listed as single will simply say that you cannot date that person. Persisting in attempting to give a bouquet to a non-marriage candidate may produce additional dialogue, such as "I don't get it" or "Is this a joke?"
The bouquet can be sold for 100g via the shipping box. Pierre will not buy them back.
A bouquet can be used to create a Wilted Bouquet, which is used to break up with a girlfriend or boyfriend. The Wilted Bouquet is created by placing a bouquet in a furnace along with one coal.

Contents

1 Group 10-Heart Event

1.1 Bachelorettes
1.2 Bachelors


2 Tailoring
3 Tip
4 Trivia
5 Bugs
6 History


Group 10-Heart Event
Bachelorettes
If the player is unmarried and has given a bouquet to all available bachelorettes, raised friendship with each bachelorette to 10 hearts, and seen each bachelorette's 10-heart event, then entering Haley/Emily's House will trigger a cutscene. If Haley is the final bachelorette you share a Ten-Heart Event with, the Group Ten-Heart Event will be unavoidable as it is triggered immediately afterwards.



Details 


If the player has a Rabbit's Foot in inventory, the cutscene will consist of a gossip session about Mayor Lewis and Marnie's relationship.
If the player does not have a Rabbit's Foot in inventory, all bachelorettes will express anger about the player dating them all at one time.  Regardless of the player's dialogue choice(s), all bachelorettes will decide to give the player the "cold shoulder" for about a week after the event.  They will give angry dialogue when interacted with, and refuse gifts.  After about a week, all bachelorettes will forgive the player, and dialogues return to normal.


This event will trigger only one time per save file. This event will not trigger if you are married or have given a Wilted Bouquet or Mermaid's Pendant to one of the marriage candidates. 

Bachelors
If the player is unmarried and has given a bouquet to all available bachelors, raised friendship with each bachelor to 10 hearts, and seen each bachelor's 10-heart event, then entering The Stardrop Saloon will trigger a cutscene. If Alex is the final bachelor you share a Ten-Heart Event with, the Group Ten-Heart Event will be unavoidable as it is triggered immediately afterwards.



Details 


If the player has a Rabbit's Foot in inventory, the cutscene will consist of a friendly game of pool.
If the player does not have a Rabbit's Foot in inventory, all bachelors will express anger about the player dating them all at one time.  Regardless of the player's dialogue choice(s), all bachelors will decide to give the player the "cold shoulder" for about a week after the event.  They will give angry dialogue when interacted with, and refuse gifts.  After about a week, all bachelors will forgive the player, and dialogues return to normal.


This event will trigger only one time per save file. This event will not trigger if you are married or have given a Wilted Bouquet or Mermaid's Pendant to one of the marriage candidates. 

Tailoring
It is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Suit Top.  It can also be used as a red dye color at the dye pots in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.

Tip
On the day you give a bouquet, doing so before you have any other interaction with the villager immediately unfreezes any friendship levels that may already exist. You are then free to proceed with normal talking and gift-giving, which then maximizes the friendship points you gain under the combined circumstances.
Trivia
The first version of the group 10-heart event (released during beta testing) was much more harsh.  It would cause the player to lose 250 friendship points with each bachelor/bachelorette, and cancel any engagement the player had with a villager.  The bachelors/bachelorettes would exclaim they were all "breaking up" with the player, instead of giving the "cold shoulder."  The event would also reset all bachelors/bachelorettes to 8 hearts of friendship, and "girlfriend" or "boyfriend" status would be removed.  In this harsher version, the rabbit's foot would do nothing.
Marriage candidates may make requests at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store during the "cold shoulder" week.  Upon fulfulling the quest, the marriage candidate will express gratitude and offer payment as usual, before returning to angry/hurt dialogue.
Marriage candidates may also send gifts in the mail during the "cold shoulder" week.
Bugs
If Penny's 10-heart event is seen before her other heart events, occasionally the bachelorette Group Ten-Heart Event will not trigger when entering Haley & Emily's house.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.3.27: Added group 10-heart event.
1.4: Added ability to turn into Wilted Bouquet.  Removed exploit that allowed multiple bouquets to be given to raise friendship.  Can now be used in Tailoring. Removed ability to gift spouse a Bouquet.



Retrieved from "https://stardewvalleywiki.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=Bouquet&oldid=143167"
Category: Special itemsHidden category: Bugs tested in an unknown version



Navigation menu




Personal tools




Create accountLog in






Namespaces




PageDiscussion






Variants












Views




ReadView sourceView history






More









Search



















Navigation




Main pageRecent changesAdmin noticeboardHelp EditingRandom page





Official Links




Official SiteOfficial ForumsOfficial MerchandiseDiscordReddit





Tools




What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPrintable versionPermanent linkPage informationPage values





In other languages




DeutschEspañolFrançaisItaliano日本語한국어MagyarPortuguêsРусскийTürkçe中文






 This page was last edited on 4 November 2022, at 17:07.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike unless otherwise noted.


Privacy policy
About Stardew Valley Wiki
Disclaimers
Mobile view









