




Bundles - Stardew Valley Wiki





































Bundles

From Stardew Valley Wiki



Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Contents

1 Traveling Cart Availability
2 Standard Bundles

2.1 Crafts Room
2.2 Pantry
2.3 Fish Tank
2.4 Boiler Room
2.5 Bulletin Board
2.6 Vault
2.7 Abandoned JojaMart


3 Remixed Bundles
4 History



 For remixed bundles chosen at game start via advanced options, see Remixed Bundles.
Bundles are donations to the Junimos given via golden scrolls inside the Community Center.  When a bundle is complete, the Junimos offer the player a reward.  When all bundles for a particular room in the Community Center are complete, the Junimos grant a special reward that sometimes benefits the entire community.  
Bundle rewards are given immediately, but rewards for completing all bundles in a room are given at the end of the day via a cutscene depicting the Junimos fulfilling the reward. If two rooms are completed on the same day, only one of the cutscenes is shown. Note that if the player does not collect individual bundle rewards before completing the room, the rewards can be found in a small brown bag to the left of the Junimo Hut after the golden scroll disappears.  This bag persists after the Community Center completion ceremony, until all items are retrieved from it.
A few bundles display more items than there are slots to fill (e.g., Artisan Bundle: 12 items, 6 slots to fill).  In this case, the player can choose which of the shown items they want to use to fill the bundle.  They do not have to use all shown items, only enough to fill the slots.
Completing all bundles restores the Community Center to its condition when it was brand new and unlocks the "Local Legend" steam achievement. That night, the game also unlocks a cut scene that shows the grand re-opening of the Community Center. This scene is triggered by entering Pelican Town Square any time thereafter on a sunny day, unless a festival is to be held in the town that day. Mayor Lewis announces that the player has won the Stardew Hero award and gives the player a trophy.
If the player opts to purchase a JojaMart Membership, the Community Center is turned into a Joja Warehouse instead. After this happens, the bundles will be completed by the Joja Corporation for a fee given to Morris, the local JojaMart manager, through the Joja Community Development Form.

 Golden Scroll
There is a total of 6 rooms and 30 bundles to complete in the Community Center.  In the Joja Warehouse, there are 5 rewards to purchase (the "Friendship" reward is not available).
Bundle Progress can be checked at any time by clicking on the Golden Scroll icon at the top right of the Player Menu (above the Garbage Can and "organize" icons).  Selecting or hovering the mouse pointer over an inventory item that is needed for a bundle makes the Golden Scroll icon pulsate.
Bundles that do not specify quality will accept items of any quality. For bundles that need multiple items, multiple stacks can be supplied, and different qualities are acceptable. For bundles that do specify a quality, a better quality is also acceptable.

Traveling Cart Availability
All items required for bundles have a small chance of appearing in the Traveling Cart stock, except for the items listed below.  These items will never be sold at the Traveling Cart:




Any starred (silver or higher quality) item
 Aged Roe*
 Amethyst*
 Ancient Doll*
 Ancient Fruit
 Aquamarine
 Blobfish*
 Bone Fragment*
 Diamond*



 Dinosaur Mayonnaise
 Earth Crystal
 Emerald*
 Fire Quartz
 Frozen Geode
 Frozen Tear
 Hay
 Lava Eel*
 Prismatic Shard



 Quartz
 Roe*
 Ruby*
 Squid Ink*
 Sweet Gem Berry*
 Topaz*
 Void Salmon
 Wheat Flour*
 White Algae*

*Used only in Remixed Bundles

Standard Bundles
Crafts Room
 Crafts Room Before Completion
 Crafts Room After Completion
The Crafts Room contains the first group of bundles available.  Completing all Crafts Room bundles repairs the bridge east of The Mines, unlocking the Quarry.





CraftsRoomReward

Bridge Repair



 Spring Foraging Bundle






 Wild Horseradish

Spring Foraging


 Daffodil

Spring Foraging, buy from Pierre at Flower Dance


 Leek

Spring Foraging


 Dandelion

Spring Foraging, buy from Pierre at Flower Dance


 Reward:

 Spring Seeds (30)



 Summer Foraging Bundle






 Grape

Summer Foraging, Fall Farming


 Spice Berry

Summer Foraging, The Farm Cave (fruit bat option)


 Sweet Pea

Summer Foraging


 Reward:

 Summer Seeds (30)



 Fall Foraging Bundle






 Common Mushroom

Fall Foraging, Spring & Fall Foraging in the Secret Woods, The Farm Cave (mushroom option), Tapping a Mushroom Tree


 Wild Plum

Fall Foraging, The Farm Cave (fruit bat option)


 Hazelnut

Fall Foraging


 Blackberry

Fall Foraging, The Farm Cave (fruit bat option)


 Reward:

 Fall Seeds (30)



 Winter Foraging Bundle






 Winter Root

Tilling soil or Artifact Spots in Winter, dropped by Blue Slimes on floors 41-79 of The Mines


 Crystal Fruit

Winter Foraging, dropped by Dust Sprites on floors 41-79 of The Mines


 Snow Yam

Tilling soil or Artifact Spots in Winter


 Crocus

Winter Foraging


 Reward:

 Winter Seeds (30)



 Construction Bundle






 Wood (99)

Chopping Trees or branches with an Axe, Carpenter's Shop


 Wood (99)

Chopping Trees or branches with an Axe, Carpenter's Shop


 Stone (99)

Smashing stones with a Pickaxe, Carpenter's Shop


 Hardwood (10)

Chopping Large Stumps or Large Logs with an upgraded Axe, smashing crates in The Mines


 Reward:

 Charcoal Kiln (1)



 Exotic Foraging Bundle






 Coconut

Desert Foraging, Oasis


 Cactus Fruit

Desert Foraging, Oasis


 Cave Carrot

The Mines, either smashing boxes or tilling soil


 Red Mushroom

Foraging in The Mines, Summer or Fall Foraging in the Secret Woods, The Farm Cave (mushroom option), Tapping a Mushroom Tree, Forest Farm Map in Fall.


 Purple Mushroom

The Mines, The Farm Cave (mushroom option), Forest Farm Map Foraging in Fall


 Maple Syrup

Tapped Maple Tree


 Oak Resin

Tapped Oak Tree


 Pine Tar

Tapped Pine Tree


 Morel

Foraging in the Secret Woods or Forest Farm Map in Spring, The Farm Cave (mushroom option)


 Reward:

 Autumn's Bounty (5)

Pantry
 Pantry Before Completion
 Pantry After Completion
The Pantry appears after completing one bundle. Completing all Pantry bundles will restore the dilapidated Greenhouse on the farm, making it available to grow Crops and Fruit Trees year-round.





PantryReward

Greenhouse



 Spring Crops Bundle






 Parsnip

Spring Crops


 Green Bean

Spring Crops


 Cauliflower

Spring Crops


 Potato

Spring Crops


 Reward:

 Speed-Gro (20)



 Summer Crops Bundle






 Tomato

Summer Crops


 Hot Pepper

Summer Crops


 Blueberry

Summer Crops


 Melon

Summer Crops


 Reward:

 Quality Sprinkler (1)



 Fall Crops Bundle






 Corn

Summer / Fall Crops


 Eggplant

Fall Crops


 Pumpkin

Fall Crops


 Yam

Fall Crops, dropped by Duggies on floors 6-29 of The Mines (3%)


 Reward:

 Bee House (1)



 Quality Crops Bundle






 Parsnip (5)

Gold quality Spring Crops


 Melon (5)

Gold quality Summer Crops


 Pumpkin (5)

Gold quality Fall Crops


 Corn (5)

Gold quality Summer / Fall Crops


 Reward:

 Preserves Jar (1)



 Animal Bundle






 Large Milk

Cows


 Large Egg (Brown)

Brown Chickens


 Large Egg

White Chickens


 Large Goat Milk

Goats


 Wool

Sheep, Rabbits


 Duck Egg

Ducks


 Reward:

 Cheese Press (1)



 Artisan Bundle






 Truffle Oil

Made from Truffles using an Oil Maker


 Cloth

Loom, Recycling a Soggy Newspaper, Desert Trader, dropped by Mummies in Skull Cavern


 Goat Cheese

Cheese Press


 Cheese

Cheese Press, Desert Trader


 Honey

Bee House, Oasis


 Jelly

Preserves Jar


 Apple

Apple Trees during Fall, The Farm Cave (fruit bat option)


 Apricot

Apricot Trees during Spring, The Farm Cave (fruit bat option)


 Orange

Orange Trees during Summer, The Farm Cave (fruit bat option)


 Peach

Peach Trees during Summer, The Farm Cave (fruit bat option)


 Pomegranate

Pomegranate Trees during Fall, The Farm Cave (fruit bat option)


 Cherry

Cherry Trees during Spring, The Farm Cave (fruit bat option)


 Reward:

 Keg (1)

Fish Tank
 Fish Tank Before Completion
 Fish Tank After Completion
The Fish Tank appears after completing one bundle.  Completing all Fish Tank bundles will remove the Glittering Boulder to the left of The Mines entrance. Willy will also give the player a Copper Pan that can be used to collect metal ores and other items from bodies of water.
Note: It may not be possible to finish the Specialty Fish Bundle before finishing the entire Vault section, as access to The Desert is required to get a Sandfish, unless it becomes available at the Traveling Cart.





FishTankReward

Glittering Boulder Removed



 River Fish Bundle


All River Fish can be found in the Riverlands Farm, Hill-Top Farm, or Forest Farm.






 Sunfish

Found in Rivers, 6am – 7pm, Spring and Summer during sunny weather.


 Catfish

Found in Rivers and Secret Woods, 6am – midnight, Spring and Fall. Only while raining.  Can be found in Summer during rain in the Secret Woods and Witch's Swamp, Winter with a Rain Totem.


 Shad

Found in Rivers, 9am – 2am, Spring, Summer, and Fall. Only while raining.


 Tiger Trout

Found in Rivers, 6am – 7pm, Fall and Winter. Can be found in any weather.


 Reward:

 Bait (30)



 Lake Fish Bundle


All Mountain Lake Fish can be found in any weather, and in the Wilderness Farm.






 Largemouth Bass

Found in the Mountain Lake, 6am – 7pm, All Seasons.


 Carp

Found in the Mountain Lake, Anytime, during Spring, Summer, or Fall.Found in Secret Woods or Sewer, Anytime, All Seasons.


 Bullhead

Found in the Mountain Lake, Anytime, All Seasons.


 Sturgeon

Found in the Mountain Lake, 6am – 7pm, Summer and Winter.


 Reward:

 Dressed Spinner (1)



 Ocean Fish Bundle






 Sardine

Found in the Ocean, 6am – 7pm, Spring, Fall, and Winter.


 Tuna

Found in the Ocean, 6am – 7pm, Summer and Winter.


 Red Snapper

Found in the Ocean, 6am – 7pm, Summer and Fall. Only when raining.


 Tilapia

Found in the Ocean, 6am – 2pm, Summer and Fall.


 Reward:

 Warp Totem: Beach (5)



 Night Fishing Bundle






 Walleye

Found in Rivers, the Mountain Lake, and Cindersap Forest Pond, 12pm – 2am, Fall (Winter with Rain Totem.) Only when raining.


 Bream

Found in Rivers, 6pm – 2am, All Seasons.


 Eel

Found in the Ocean, 4pm – 2am, Spring or Fall. Only when raining.


 Reward:

 Small Glow Ring (1)



 Crab Pot Bundle






 Lobster

Caught in Crab Pots (ocean)


 Crayfish

Caught in Crab Pots (freshwater)


 Crab

Caught in Crab Pots (ocean), drops from Rock Crabs or Lava Crabs in The Mines


 Cockle

Caught in Crab Pots (ocean), Beach Foraging


 Mussel

Caught in Crab Pots (ocean), Beach Foraging


 Shrimp

Caught in Crab Pots (ocean)


 Snail

Caught in Crab Pots (freshwater)


 Periwinkle

Caught in Crab Pots (freshwater)


 Oyster

Caught in Crab Pots (ocean), Beach Foraging


 Clam

Caught in Crab Pots (ocean), Beach Foraging


 Reward:

 Crab Pot (3)



 Specialty Fish Bundle






 Pufferfish

Found in the Ocean, 12pm – 4pm, Summer during sunny weather.


 Ghostfish

Found in ponds in The Mines floors 20 and 60, Anytime, All Seasons. May also be dropped by Ghosts.


 Sandfish

Found in the pond in The Desert, 6am – 8pm, All Seasons.


 Woodskip

Found in the Secret Woods and the Forest Farm, Anytime, All Seasons.


 Reward:

 Dish O' The Sea (5)

Boiler Room
 Boiler Room Before Completion
 Boiler Room After Completion
The Boiler Room appears after completing two bundles.  Completing all Boiler Room bundles repairs the Minecarts, allowing the player to fast travel between distant locations. The Locations are Bus Stop, Mines, Quarry and Town.





BoilerRoomReward

Minecarts Repaired



 Blacksmith's Bundle






 Copper Bar

Smelting Copper Ore in the Furnace


 Iron Bar

Smelting Iron Ore in the Furnace, Crafting the "Transmute (Fe)" recipe


 Gold Bar

Smelting Gold Ore in the Furnace, Crafting the "Transmute (Au)" recipe


 Reward:

 Furnace (1)



 Geologist's Bundle






 Quartz

Foraging on all floors of The Mines


 Earth Crystal

Foraging on floors 1-39 of The Mines, Geodes, Omni Geodes, drop from Duggies in the Mines (floors 6-29)


 Frozen Tear

Foraging on floors 41-79 of The Mines, Frozen Geodes, Omni Geodes, drop from Dust Sprites in the Mines (floors 41-79)


 Fire Quartz

Foraging on floors 81-119 of The Mines, Magma Geodes, Omni Geodes


 Reward:

 Omni Geode (5)



 Adventurer's Bundle






 Slime (99)

Dropped by Slimes


 Bat Wing (10)

Dropped by Bats in The Mines or the Skull Cavern


 Solar Essence

Dropped by Ghosts, Squid Kids, or Metal Heads in The Mines, dropped by Mummies or Iridium Bats in the Skull Cavern; produced by Sunfish in Fish Ponds; buy from Krobus


 Void Essence

Dropped by Shadow Brutes or Shadow Shamans in The Mines or Serpents in the Skull Cavern; produced by Void Salmon in Fish Ponds; buy from Krobus


 Reward:

 Small Magnet Ring (1)

Bulletin Board
 Bulletin Board Before Completion
 Bulletin Board After Completion
The Bulletin Board appears after completing three bundles.
Completing all Bulletin Board bundles improves the player's friendship rating with every non-datable villager by two hearts (500 points).  Note that this applies only to non-datable villagers whom the player has met in person. Villagers who do not show on the "Social" tab of the player menu and villagers whose names appear as "???' will not receive 500 points. If the player completes all the bundles before Kent arrives on 1 Spring, Year 2, he will not benefit from the friendship increase, and will start at 0 hearts. The Dwarf's friendship will be unaffected if the player does not have the Dwarvish Translation Guide.
The morning after, Mayor Lewis will send a letter saying that packages containing items posted about "years ago" on the community center bulletin board have been appearing in villagers' homes.  He says the packages are all addressed from "your farm".  He expresses his gratitude and says "all of us in town are delighted!"





BulletinBoardReward

Friendship ♡



 Chef's Bundle






 Maple Syrup

Tapped Maple Tree


 Fiddlehead Fern

Summer Foraging in the Secret Woods, Foraging on Prehistoric Floors at the Skull Cavern


 Truffle

Pigs


 Poppy

Summer Crops


 Maki Roll

Cooking (recipe sources: The Queen of Sauce, The Saloon)


 Fried Egg

Cooking


 Reward:

 Pink Cake (3)



 Dye Bundle






 Red Mushroom

Foraging in The Mines, Summer or Fall Foraging in the Secret Woods, The Farm Cave (mushroom option), Tapping a Mushroom Tree


 Sea Urchin

Beach Foraging, after using 300 wood to fix the bridge to the right side of The Beach or any side of the beach during crab mating season; foraging in the Beach Farm


 Sunflower

Summer / Fall Crops


 Duck Feather

Ducks


 Aquamarine

Aquamarine Nodes, boxes in The Mines, Fishing Treasure Chests


 Red Cabbage

Summer Crops (Red Cabbage Seeds are available at Pierre's General Store in year 2+, at the Traveling Cart, or dropped by Serpents, Mummies, and Purple Slimes)


 Reward:

 Seed Maker (1)



 Field Research Bundle






 Purple Mushroom

The Mines, The Farm Cave (mushroom option), Forest Farm Map Foraging in Fall


 Nautilus Shell

Winter Beach Foraging, Beach Farm Map Foraging during any season, Random gift from Demetrius (Note: NOT the Nautilus Fossil artifact)


 Chub

Can be found in the mountain lake and river during all seasons, any time.


 Frozen Geode

The Mines floors 41-79


 Reward:

 Recycling Machine (1)



 Fodder Bundle






 Wheat (10)

Summer / Fall Crops


 Hay (10)

Purchase at Marnie's Ranch or Desert Trader, or harvest from Grass or Wheat.


 Apple (3)

Apple Trees during Fall, The Farm Cave (fruit bat option)


 Reward:

 Heater (1)



 Enchanter's Bundle






 Oak Resin

Tapped Oak Tree


 Wine

Keg


 Rabbit's Foot

Rabbits, Serpent drop in Skull Cavern (0.8%)


 Pomegranate

Pomegranate Trees during Fall, The Farm Cave (fruit bat option)


 Reward:

 Gold Bar (5)

Vault
 Vault Before Completion
 Vault After Completion
The Vault becomes available after completing four bundles. Pressing the large "purchase" button will purchase the bundle and deduct the gold from the total.
Completing all Vault bundles costs 42,500g, and repairs the Bus Stop. Taking the Bus grants access to The Calico Desert.





VaultReward

Bus Repair



 2,500 Bundle




 2,500g


 Reward:

 Chocolate Cake (3)



 5,000 Bundle




 5,000g


 Reward:

 Quality Fertilizer (30)



 10,000 Bundle




 10,000g


 Reward:

 Lightning Rod (1)



 25,000 Bundle




 25,000g


 Reward:

 Crystalarium (1)

Abandoned JojaMart
 The Missing Bundle
After completing the Community Center, the first night before a rainy or stormy day, a cutscene will trigger in which a bolt of lightning strikes the abandoned JojaMart, opening its doors.  Inside, the Missing Bundle can be found.





MissingBundleReward

Movie Theater



 The Missing Bundle











Silver or better quality Wine (any)


Cask, Ginger Island resort


 Dinosaur Mayonnaise
Mayonnaise Machine


 Prismatic Shard
Mining






Gold quality Ancient Fruit (5)


Crops






Gold or Iridium quality Void Salmon


Fishing in the Witch's Swamp


 Caviar
Preserves Jar product from Sturgeon roe


Remixed Bundles
Main article: Remixed Bundles
History
1.3.27: Removed an exploit that allowed some furniture to be used in place of items to fill bundles.
1.4: Introduced the Missing Bundle.  Selecting or hovering the mouse pointer over inventory items needed for a bundle now makes the Golden Scroll icon pulsate.  Uncollected rewards can now be found in a bundle next to the Junimo Hut when the golden scroll disappears.
1.5: Added the ability to randomize bundles for new saves, stack different quality items, as well as an option to be able to complete all of the bundles in the first year by guaranteeing that the Traveling Cart will sell a Red Cabbage Seed.



Retrieved from "https://stardewvalleywiki.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=Bundles&oldid=143453"
Category: Gameplay



Navigation menu




Personal tools




Create accountLog in






Namespaces




PageDiscussion






Variants












Views




ReadView sourceView history






More









Search



















Navigation




Main pageRecent changesAdmin noticeboardHelp EditingRandom page





Official Links




Official SiteOfficial ForumsOfficial MerchandiseDiscordReddit





Tools




What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPrintable versionPermanent linkPage informationPage values





In other languages




DeutschEspañolFrançaisItaliano日本語한국어MagyarPortuguêsРусскийTürkçe中文






 This page was last edited on 9 November 2022, at 03:54.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike unless otherwise noted.


Privacy policy
About Stardew Valley Wiki
Disclaimers
Mobile view









