




Community Center - Stardew Valley Wiki








































Community Center

From Stardew Valley Wiki



Jump to navigation
Jump to search



Community Center








Open Hours:

Always


Closed:

Never


Occupants:

 Junimos


 For Community Center Bundles, see Bundles.
The Pelican Town Community Center is located in Pelican Town, on the screen north of Pierre's General Store.  Initially it appears as a dilapidated building, and is locked to the community.
To open the Community Center, the player must enter Pelican Town from the Bus Stop on a day when it is not raining, from Spring 5th onward, between 8:00 am and 1:00 pm.  Entering town from another direction, at another time, or on a rainy day, will not trigger the cutscene. In multiplayer, the host must trigger the cutscene.
During the cutscene, Mayor Lewis unlocks the building and leads the player inside, where strange creatures called Junimos appear and quickly disappear before Lewis can see them.  Lewis says he wouldn't be surprised if the place was "full of rats".  The cutscene ends with Lewis informing the player that he will leave the Community Center unlocked in the future.  Viewing the cut-scene unlocks the "Rat Problem" quest.  
To fulfill the "Rat Problem" quest, the player must re-enter the Community Center and interact with a  Golden Scroll located in the lower left room.  The scroll contains strange writing that can't be deciphered.
The morning after reading the scroll, the player will receive a letter from the Wizard saying he has information about the "rat problem" and that the player should pay him a visit.  Reading this letter unlocks the "Meet the Wizard" quest.  Visiting the Wizard at his tower in the west of Cindersap Forest will trigger a cutscene during which the Wizard gives the player a potion that allows the player to read the language of the Junimos.  
Thereafter, all Golden Scrolls at the Community Center can be read by the player.  Each scroll asks for specific offerings in the form of Bundles.  Completing all the bundles restores the Community Center.
Alternatively, if the player purchases a JojaMart membership from Morris for 5,000g, the Community Center is permanently replaced with a Joja Warehouse.  Instead of completing Bundles, the player will then purchase community upgrades through the Joja Community Development Form.

Contents

1 Restoring the Community Center
2 Willy's Boat
3 Trivia
4 Gallery
5 Bugs
6 History


Restoring the Community Center
After completing all bundles, the Junimos restore the Community Center, and say good-bye before leaving.  The next sunny day after completing the last bundle, the player can attend the Community Center reopening ceremony cutscene, triggered by entering Pelican Town at any time.  The ceremony is delayed if it is raining or a festival is to be held in town. Completing the ceremony unlocks the "Local Legend" Achievement and awards the player the Stardew Hero Trophy.



Ceremony Details 


The grand opening event begins by showing the entire town at the Community Center. Everyone has balloons and is celebrating and taking a look at the refurbished Center. Inside, the mayor shows off the Center to everyone exploring it. Entering the Center, the player can talk to Lewis, who will exclaim how happy he and the rest of the town is. On behalf of the whole town, he awards them with the Stardew Hero Trophy in thanks.
Soon after, a voice grumbles, and the owner of JojaMart, Morris, comes into the Center. He asks where all his customers went as he looks around the building. Angrily, Pierre walks over and asks Morris how it feels. There are two choices to choose from to calm the situation or escalate it. 

"Let's be reasonable."
"Let's settle this the old-fashioned way."
If choosing "Let's be reasonable.":Morris then boasts that he will put on a 75% off sale to get his customers back and laughs off the event. Pierre then tells him he's wrong and asks everyone to gather around. He begins to talk about when he first moved to the Pelican Town, reminiscing about how the town had a real sense of being a family and a community, talking to different people about how they enjoyed and connected with each other in the Center and that Joja Mart took that away from them. Now that the Center is finished, Pierre asks everyone to boycott JojaMart in order to take advantage of their second chance that the player has given them. Morris jumps in shock and everyone takes a second to soak it in.
Everyone will agree with Pierre to boycott Joja. Morris then exclaims that his business is ruined and will rush out of the Center.
If choosing "Let's settle this the old-fashioned way.":Morris then boasts that he will put on a 75% off sale to get his customers back and laugh in Pierre's face. Pierre will then say that he will not get his way this time and proposes that they settle this once and for all. Morris asks how they would do so and Pierre will then start to threaten to fight Morris. Morris will scoff at Pierre and begin to walk off. Pierre will then try to goad on Morris with a threat of all Joja Mart employees being cowards. Morris will become infuriated at the slander of his employer, Joja. He will walk back to Pierre and begin fighting with him. Caroline will scream Pierre's name as George laughs and enjoys the fight as Lewis and Robin jump in surprise from the fight. Morris and Pierre will start to insult each other as they continue to fight. Pierre will then punch Morris so hard that he flies out of the community center's ceiling. Pierre is so proud of his winning punch he smiles and poses with sunglasses.


After the ceremony, JojaMart goes out of business.  The building becomes abandoned and falls into disrepair. Pierre's General Store is no longer closed on Wednesdays and is open every day of the week. The Blacksmith shop is closed on Fridays, since Clint spends all day at the Community Center. However, the shop can still be entered.

Willy's Boat
Main article: Fish Shop#Willy's Boat
After reaching certain progress on the Community Center Bundles, cutscenes about Willy's boat can be triggered.

Trivia
The Junimo message in the community center translates to "We the junimo are happy to aid you. In return we ask for gifts of the valley. If you are one with forest magic then you will see the true nature of this scroll."
A Junimo carrying a bundle into the hut might say "A gift!" or "Thank you!" in Junimo. When fetching a star, they might say "Junimo!" or "Star!".
When a bundle is completed, a Junimo will be seen carrying the bundle into the hut. When a room is completed, the Junimo will retrieve a star from the hut and place it above the mantle, and will then follow the player around until they leave the Community Center.  Clicking on this Junimo with an inventory item will cause the Junimo to jump and squeak.
After being restored, some villagers spend time enjoying the Community Center.
After being restored the clock on the front of the building will work again and keep pace with the in-game clock.
If the player restores the community center but does not enter town again until after midnight, the cutscene will still trigger and will show Jas happily jumping rope in the middle of the night.
Gallery




A Junimo says "thank you!"






The Community Center restored






Community center completion ceremony






Never looked better






Stardew Hero Trophy






Interior restored




Bugs
If the player completes two or more rooms on the same day, only the overnight cutscene for the last completed room will be played.
If the player completes all bundles in a room the day before getting married, the Junimos' overnight cutscene will be skipped.
In multiplayer, if a host purchases the Joja membership while a farmhand completes the last bundle of the Community Center, the Joja celebration will take place in front of the Community Center instead of the Joja Warehouse.
History
1.4: It is no longer possible to purchase a Joja membership after completing the Community Center.
1.4.3: Fixed a bug where multiple rewards could be collected from a bundle.


Buildings


Merchants

Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower


Houses

1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse


Farm Buildings

Farming

Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Shed  • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well


Special

Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk


Other Buildings

Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut




Retrieved from "https://stardewvalleywiki.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=Community_Center&oldid=141588"
Category: Town LocationsHidden categories: Bugs tested in an unknown versionBugs tested in 1.4



Navigation menu




Personal tools




Create accountLog in






Namespaces




PageDiscussion






Variants












Views




ReadView sourceView history






More









Search



















Navigation




Main pageRecent changesAdmin noticeboardHelp EditingRandom page





Official Links




Official SiteOfficial ForumsOfficial MerchandiseDiscordReddit





Tools




What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPrintable versionPermanent linkPage informationPage values





In other languages




DeutschEspañolFrançaisItaliano日本語한국어MagyarPortuguêsРусскийTürkçe中文






 This page was last edited on 9 September 2022, at 18:16.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike unless otherwise noted.


Privacy policy
About Stardew Valley Wiki
Disclaimers
Mobile view









