




Festival of Ice - Stardew Valley Wiki




































Festival of Ice

From Stardew Valley Wiki



Jump to navigation
Jump to search
The Festival of Ice takes place on the 8th of every Winter. The player attends the festival by entering Cindersap Forest between 9am and 2pm.  When the festival ends, the player will be returned to The Farm at 10pm. 
The festival features ice sculptures, snowmen, and igloos. There's also an Ice Fishing Contest the player can take part in along with Pam, Willy, and Elliott.  The player must catch at least five fish to win the competition, or else Willy will win. The first time the player wins, their prize is two tackles (a  Barbed Hook and a  Dressed Spinner), a  Magnet, and a  Sailor's Cap.  Thereafter, winning awards 2,000g, which counts toward "total earnings."
If two or more players in a Multiplayer game win the Ice Fishing Contest, all winning players receive the reward(s).
The holes in the ice are quite small, so it can be difficult to cast into them. Standing close to the hole and casting a minimal distance is the easiest way to do this.  It is possible to catch fish outside of the frozen lake, in the forest pond and the forest river. Fish caught in the forest pond count towards the fishing competition, but those caught in the river do not.
The festival ends automatically after Mayor Lewis judges the fishing contest.
On the day of the Festival, every home and shop in Stardew Valley is "locked" and cannot be entered. 

Contents

1 Shop
2 Dialogue
3 Images
4 Mail
5 Trivia
6 Bugs
7 History


Shop



Warning: Spoilers
This page or section contains unmarked spoilers from update 1.5 of Stardew Valley.  Mobile players may want to avoid or be cautious toward reading this article.

The Traveling Merchant has a booth from which she sells the following items.



Image

Name

Description

Price




Rarecrow (1)

Collect them all! (4 of 8)

5,000g




Tree of the Winter Star

Can be placed as decoration.

5,000g




'Frozen Dreams'

Can be placed inside your house.

2,000g




Icy Rug

Can be placed inside your house.

4,000g




Winter Dining Table

Can be placed as decoration.

3,000g




Icy Banner

Can be placed inside your house.

800g




Wall Sconce

Can be placed inside your house.

1,000g




Winter End Table

Can be placed as decoration.

1,000g




Cranberry Sauce (1)

A festive treat.

200g




Stuffing (1)

Ahh... the smell of warm bread and sage.

200g




Pumpkin Soup (1)

A seasonal favorite.

250g

Dialogue
Each year, unless she is married, Penny will ask what kind of snowman she and Jas should build. Three responses are possible:

Classic Snowman (carrot nose, coal eyes, scarf) -- [She will smile and say that it is best to stick with the classics.]
A Funky Snowman (Icicle antennae, pine cone eyes) -- [She will smile and say that it sounds like a fun idea.]
Tell her Snowmen are boring and she should build something 'outside the box!' -- [She will say she would rather stick to something a bit more conventional.]
Willy will also ask if the player is they ready for some ice fishing. Three answers are possible:

Yes. I'll do my best! -- [He will smile and say that's the spirit!]
Yes, and I'm going to beat you! -- [He will simply say we'll see.]
To be honest, no. I'm bad at fishing. -- [He will smile and say to think of this as good practice.]
Images



Mail


Trivia
At the end of the fishing competition Lewis will say "Wow, that's a lot of fish". This may be a reference to 1998 Godzilla silly quote.
Talking to Abigail at her snowman will result in her asking what the player thinks of her "snow goon." This may be a reference to a 1991 series of "Calvin and Hobbes" comic strips found in the Attack of the Deranged Mutant Killer Monster Snow Goons collection, in which Calvin builds several mutant snowmen.
Marrying Abigail and talking to her at her snowman will result in her saying "Hey, honey... look it's you!"
It is possible to find one of the Secret Notes during the ice fishing contest, but it will not be added to the inventory when the contest is over.
Contest fish do not register as "caught" unless the animation showing the fish flying back to the player is completed. It is possible to catch the fifth fish just as time runs out (with the bar announcing a "perfect" catch) and still lose the contest because the fifth fish did not complete its flying animation.
Fish caught during the festival don't give fishing experience.  Because of this, if the player has never fished, they'll see the fishing instructions every time they attempt to catch one.
It is possible to speak with the villagers during the fishing competition. However, they have no unique dialogue and simply repeat what they say normally during the festival.
While the Wizard is normally inaccessible due to Linus' igloo, he does have dialogue specified in the game's data files: "Sneaking off to visit my weird tower? You're odd for a mundane."
Bugs
After initiating the fishing contest through Lewis, a player who moves directly to the rightmost accessible fishing spot and instantly casts a line too far for the fishing hole, will then be stuck in a state that looks like a combination of pulling on the rod and standing idly forward. Once begun, the bug holds the player in a state where no buttons can be pressed, and no fish will bite a "line" that was cast, rendering the event mini-game unplayable. After two minutes, the contest ends and play continues normally as if the player caught no fish.
It's also possible to trigger this bug after a few casts rather than immediately, but it's not clear what exact circumstances trigger it (other than requiring the cast to be too far to hit the hole).
A player who holds down a directional control while the fishing contest starts will not be provided with a fishing rod but will continue to be able to talk to the villagers, who all have the same dialogue as they do before the contest begins.
History
1.4: Fixed bug where NPCs would follow non-festival schedules after the festival. Festival winnings count towards total earnings.
1.5: Traveling Merchant's shop introduced. Clicking pigs at the festival now produces a pig sound. Fixed various issues relating to the map, such as being able to prematurely end the festival from certain tiles.


Festivals


Spring

Egg Festival • Flower Dance


Summer

Luau • Dance of the Moonlight Jellies


Fall

Stardew Valley Fair • Spirit's Eve


Winter

Festival of Ice • Night Market • Feast of the Winter Star





Retrieved from "https://stardewvalleywiki.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=Festival_of_Ice&oldid=140577"
Category: Winter festivalsHidden categories: SpoilersBugs tested in an unknown version



Navigation menu




Personal tools




Create accountLog in






Namespaces




PageDiscussion






Variants












Views




ReadView sourceView history






More









Search



















Navigation




Main pageRecent changesAdmin noticeboardHelp EditingRandom page





Official Links




Official SiteOfficial ForumsOfficial MerchandiseDiscordReddit





Tools




What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPrintable versionPermanent linkPage informationPage values





In other languages




DeutschEspañolFrançaisItaliano日本語한국어MagyarPortuguêsРусскийTürkçe中文






 This page was last edited on 31 July 2022, at 17:23.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike unless otherwise noted.


Privacy policy
About Stardew Valley Wiki
Disclaimers
Mobile view









