




Friendship - Stardew Valley Wiki




































Friendship

From Stardew Valley Wiki



Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Contents

1 Friendship mechanics

1.1 Point system
1.2 Decay
1.3 Gifts
1.4 Heart Events
1.5 Romance
1.6 Quests
1.7 Festivals
1.8 Bulletin Board Bundles


2 Universal Gifts

2.1 Universal Loves

2.1.1 Universal Loves exceptions


2.2 Universal Likes

2.2.1 Universal Likes exceptions


2.3 Universal Neutrals

2.3.1 Universal Neutrals exceptions


2.4 Universal Dislikes

2.4.1 Universal Dislikes exceptions


2.5 Universal Hates

2.5.1 Universal Hates exceptions




3 Achievements
4 References
5 History



Friendship can be earned with Pelican Town's villagers. As friendships deepen, the villagers' dialogue lines become more friendly, cut-scenes called heart events occur, villagers are more likely to send gifts in the mail, and marriage is possible with one of the datable villagers.

Friendship mechanics
Point system
Each villager has a friendship score represented by a ten-heart meter, except the player's spouse or roommate, who has a fourteen-heart meter. A marriage candidate who has not received a bouquet has the last two hearts grayed out.

Each heart is 250 friendship points. All heart meters can be viewed on the social tab of the game menu.
When talking to villagers, a circle will appear next to their portrait. Its color will depend on the number of hearts the player has with the villager. Blue denotes 0-1 hearts, green for 2-3, yellow for 4-5, red for 6-7, purple for 8-9, and at 10-14 hearts a purple star will appear. Hovering the mouse over the circle will display the number of hearts out of 10, if not married.

Friendship points can be increased with each villager by:

talking to them once per day (normally +20; otherwise +10 if the villager is in the middle of a special animation, like exercising or using a camera)
completing an item delivery quest (+150)
giving a gift they love, like, or are neutral towards (see Gifts)
giving the maximum two gifts in one week (+10, awarded on the next Sunday)
inviting them to the Movie Theater (+200 if loved, +100 if liked)
purchasing a snack for them at the Movie Theater (+50 if loved, +25 if liked) (see Movie Theater)
making certain choices in heart events
kissing your spouse (+10, only for the first kiss of the day); does not apply if Krobus is your roommate
Friendship points can be decreased by:

not giving a daily greeting (see Decay)
giving a gift they dislike or hate (see Gifts)
hitting them with a slingshot (-30 per hit)
making certain choices in heart events
rummaging through a Garbage Can when they're within 7 tiles of the player (-25, except Linus who increases: +5). They will speak to indicate that they have seen them. If more than one villager is within 7 tiles of the player when they rummage, only one will speak and lose friendship.
The player may enter a villager's bedroom when the relevant heart meter reads at least 2 hearts. This level improves access to the villager for talking and gifting. Once opened, the room is permanently unlocked even if the heart meter goes below 2 hearts.
Friendship points can increase up to a maximum of 2749 (one point less than 11 hearts) for non-marriage candidates.
With marriage candidates, the meter pauses at 8 hearts. It will not increase unless you give the candidate a bouquet to indicate your romantic interest. If you do so, that meter is unlocked and operates as before until ten hearts is reached. (Note that after reaching 8 hearts pre-bouquet, friendship points can continue to rise to just below 9 hearts (2249 points) and will not decay until the candidate is given a bouquet.) It is possible to give a bouquet to any and all marriage candidates, and raise all their friendship levels to 10 hearts, without damage to your relationships with other romantic partners, so long as you have not yet proposed. (If you have proposed, are married, or have a roommate, there is a chance your fiancé/spouse/roommate may become jealous.) Breaking up with them will instantly lower the relationship meter to 5 hearts, but it can be increased back to 8 hearts.
Dating all bachelors or bachelorettes may result in a Group Ten Heart event, which does not affect friendship, but may prevent the player from giving gifts to them for one week afterwards.
When you propose marriage, the heart meters of all other marriage candidates convert to the behavior of all other villagers, since none are marriage candidates any longer. However, their entries in the social tab still show whether you have previously given them a bouquet. In addition, after marriage, romantic heart events can still be triggered with other marriage candidates if they have previously been given a bouquet. After the marriage ceremony, your spouse's meter unlocks once again and can rise as far as 14 hearts. Friendship points can then increase up to a maximum of 3749 (one point less than 15 hearts).

Decay
Each day, not talking to a villager will slightly decrease their friendship unless their heart meter is full.[1] If the player is married, decay never stops with their spouse even if the player is at 14 hearts with them. Calling a villager using the Telephone does not count as talking to the villager.



Relationship

Decay rate

When decay stops


Married

-20/day

Never


Gave bouquet

-10/day

10 hearts


Pre-bouquet

-2/day

8 hearts


Not romanceable

-2/day

10 hearts

Gifts
You can give each villager one gift per day, up to two gifts per week, as indicated by the checkboxes in the social tab. You can review the villager's gift preferences by clicking on their row in the Social Tab to open the "Gift Log".  This log keeps track of gifts given, and gift preferences learned via Secret Notes and dialogues with their family and friends.
For the purpose of gift-giving, the week begins on Sunday. If you give a villager two gifts in a week, their heart meter will rise by an additional 10 friendship points on Sunday morning when you wake up.
You can always give a birthday gift to a villager, even if you've already given them two other gifts that week.
You can give your spouse one gift every day of the week, but any friendship gain or loss is halved.[2]
Each villager has individual likes and dislikes, which affects how many friendship points are gained or lost when you give them a gift. The friendship points are multiplied on their birthday (×8) and Feast of the Winter Star secret gifting event (×5):



Gift Taste

Normal

Winter Star (×5)

Birthday (×8)


Love

+80

+400

+640


Like

+45

+225

+360


Neutral

+20

+100

+160


Dislike

-20

-100

-160


Hate

-40

-200

-320

If a gift is liked or loved, the points gained will be further affected by the quality of the item:



Quality

Multiplier

Effect




Normal

×1

+0%




Silver

×1.1

+10%




Gold

×1.25

+25%




Iridium

×1.5

+50%

On any given day, gifting a normal quality loved item always gives more points than gifting an iridium quality liked item to a given villager.[2] For liked or loved gifts, the equation is Event Multiplier × Preference × Quality Multiplier, where Event Multiplier is 1 (any day), 5 (the player's Winter Star recipient), or 8 (their birthday), Preference is 80 (loved gifts) or 45 (liked gifts), and Quality Multiplier is 1, 1.1, 1.25, or 1.5.  (For neutral, disliked, or hated gifts, the equation is simply Event Multiplier × Preference.)  The highest friendship points possible from a single gift would be to gift someone an iridium-quality loved gift on their birthday, which would yield 960 points, just short of 4 hearts.

Heart Events
Gaining friendship with each villager will unlock unique events (see each villager's article for the requirements). It's possible to permanently miss some events, though most events can be viewed anytime (with some time restrictions) or out of order. In some heart events, it is not possible to increase or decrease friendship with anyone, even if dialogue choices are available. However, in certain heart events, making certain choices can either increase or decrease friendship with certain villagers involved. The maximum possible friendship points that can be earned in one single heart event is +250 from Linus' 8 heart event, while the maximum possible friendship points that can be lost is -1500 from Penny's 8 heart and 10 heart events.

Romance
Main article: Marriage
Some villagers can be romanced by the player (see marriage candidates). Once the player has reached eight hearts with an eligible villager, the player can give them a bouquet to unlock the ninth and tenth hearts.  Once the player has reached ten hearts with an eligible villager, the player can give them a Mermaid's Pendant to propose marriage, which the villager always accepts.  Alternatively, at 10 hearts, the player can give Krobus a Void Ghost Pendant to indicate they'd like to move in together as roommates, which Krobus always accepts.
After becoming the player's spouse or roommate, the villager moves into the player's house and their friendship meter expands to fourteen hearts. After reaching 12.5 hearts (3125 points), the villager will give the player a stardrop if the player has not received a stardrop in this manner previously.

Quests
Main article: Quests
The game-opening Introductions quest, when completed, increases by 100 the player's friendship points with each of the 28 starting townspeople. (The Wizard is not included among these villagers.)
Some Story Quests and Special Order Quests will raise friendship with certain villagers.
Completing an Item Delivery Quest awards 150 friendship points with the requesting villager.

Festivals
Main article: Festivals
20 friendship points are earned for speaking to villagers at festivals, the same as any non-festival day.  Three festivals can have special effects on friendship points with villagers:

The Flower Dance increases friendship by 250 points (one heart) with the player's dance partner.
The Luau can increase or decrease friendship points with all villagers except Sandy, the Wizard, Krobus, and the Dwarf. This depends on the ingredient that was added to the soup.
The player's gift to their secret friend at the Feast of the Winter Star is worth 5x the normal amount of friendship points.
In addition, giving gifts to villagers at the Night Market will increase friendship with them, in the same way as it does outside of festivals.

Bulletin Board Bundles
Main article: Bundles
Completing all Bulletin Board bundles improves the player's friendship rating with non-datable villagers by two hearts (500 points).  Note that this applies only to non-datable villagers whom you have met in person.  Villagers who do not show on the "Social" tab of the player menu and villagers whose names appear as "???" will not receive 500 points.
The player does not have to understand Dwarvish for the Dwarf to receive 500 points.  In contrast, they do have to understand Dwarvish for gifts to affect friendship with the Dwarf.

Universal Gifts
See also: List of All Gifts
Below are lists of items that are universally loved, liked, considered neutral, disliked, or hated. Note that there are some exceptions and that individual villager tastes override any universal tastes.
Preferences for Eggs, Milk, Fruit, and most Foraged Items vary by villager, and are generally not listed here.  
Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.

Universal Loves
This is a list of items that almost every villager loves to receive as a gift. These items are guaranteed to give the most points (80) towards your relationship, but may be difficult to obtain.
When given a loved gift, villagers usually respond with a heart dialogue bubble.  

 Golden Pumpkin
 Magic Rock Candy
 Pearl
 Prismatic Shard
 Rabbit's Foot
Universal Loves exceptions
 Haley hates Prismatic Shard.
 Penny hates Rabbit's Foot.
Universal Likes
Though worth fewer friendship points than a loved gift, a liked gift increases friendship by 45 points (just over half that of a loved gift) and is often much easier to obtain. 

All Artisan Goods (Except for Oil which is universally disliked; and Void Mayonnaise which is universally hated.)
All Cooking (Except for Fried Egg and Bread, which are universally neutral; and Strange Bun and Seafoam Pudding which are universally hated.)
Note that many dishes have villager-specific exceptions.
All Flowers (Except for Poppy, which is universally hated.)
All Foraged Minerals (Except Quartz, which varies by villager.)
All Fruit Tree Fruits (Except Banana & Mango, which follow villager-specific preferences for non-Fruit-Tree fruit.)
All Gems (Except Prismatic Shard which is universally loved.)
All Vegetables (including Fiddlehead Fern, but excluding Hops, Tea Leaves and Wheat which are universally neutral, and Unmilled Rice which is universally disliked.)
 Life Elixir
 Maple Syrup
Universal Likes exceptions
Below is an Expandable table of all Universal Likes exceptions, listed by Villager.  (See also: List of All Gifts)



Villager

Loves

Likes

Neutrals

Dislikes

Hates 


 Abigail

Gems: AmethystCooking: Banana Pudding, Blackberry Cobbler, Chocolate Cake, Spicy EelVegetables: Pumpkin





All Vegetables except Pumpkin (specifically loved)




 Alex

Cooking: Complete Breakfast, Salmon Dinner










 Caroline

Artisan Goods: Green TeaCooking: Fish Taco, Tropical CurryFlowers: Summer Spangle

Vegetables: Tea Leaves



Artisan Goods: Duck Mayonnaise, MayonnaiseVegetables: Amaranth




 Clint

All Gems except Diamond (universally liked)Cooking: Artichoke Dip, Fiddlehead Risotto





All Flowers (except Poppy, universally hated)




 Demetrius

Cooking: Bean Hotpot, Ice Cream, Rice Pudding










 Dwarf

All Gems except Diamond (universally liked)










 Elliott

Cooking: Crab Cakes, Tom Kha SoupFruit Tree Fruit: Pomegranate





Cooking: Pizza

Vegetables: Amaranth


 Emily

Artisan Goods: ClothCooking: Survival BurgerAll Gems except Diamond (universally liked)





Cooking: Fried Eel, Ice Cream, Rice Pudding, Spicy Eel

Cooking: Fish Taco, Maki Roll, Salmon Dinner, Sashimi


 Evelyn

Cooking: Chocolate Cake, StuffingFlowers: Fairy Rose, TulipGems: DiamondVegetables: Beet







Cooking: Fried Eel, Maki Roll, Sashimi, Spicy Eel, Trout SoupVegetables: Garlic


 George

Cooking: Fried Mushroom





All Flowers (except Poppy, universally hated)




 Gus

Cooking: Escargot, Fish Taco, Tropical CurryFruit Tree Fruit: OrangeGems: Diamond







Cooking: Coleslaw


 Haley

Cooking: Fruit Salad, Pink CakeFlowers: Sunflower





All Vegetables (except Hops & Wheat, universally neutral)




 Harvey

Artisan Goods: Coffee, Pickles, Truffle Oil, WineCooking: Super Meal





Artisan Goods: Cheese, Goat CheeseCooking: Blueberry Tart, Chocolate Cake, Cookie, Cranberry Sauce, Fried Mushroom, Glazed Yams, Hashbrowns, Ice Cream, Pancakes, Pink Cake, Pizza, Rhubarb Pie, Rice Pudding




 Jas

Cooking: Pink Cake, Plum PuddingFlowers: Fairy Rose





All Vegetables (except Hops & Wheat, universally neutral)

All Artisan Goods (except Honey, Jelly, universally liked; and Oil, universally disliked)Cooking: Triple Shot Espresso


 Jodi

Cooking: Chocolate Cake, Crispy Bass, Eggplant Parmesan, Fried Eel, Pancakes, Rhubarb Pie, Vegetable MedleyGems: Diamond





Vegetables: Garlic




 Kent

Cooking: Fiddlehead Risotto, Roasted Hazelnuts







Cooking: Algae Soup, Sashimi, Tortilla


 Krobus

Gems: DiamondVegetables: Pumpkin

Cooking: Seafoam Pudding



All Cooking except Bread, Fried Egg, universally neutral; and Strange Bun, & Seafoam Pudding universally hatedMisc: Life Elixir




 Leah

Artisan Goods: Goat Cheese, WineCooking: Poppyseed Muffin, Salad, Stir Fry, Vegetable Medley





All Foraged Minerals except Earth Crystal (universally liked)All Gems except Diamond (universally liked) & Prismatic Shard (universally loved)Cooking: Carp Surprise, Cookie, Ice Cream, Pink Cake, Rice Pudding, Survival Burger, Tortilla

Cooking: Hashbrowns, Pancakes, Pizza


 Leo

Cooking: Poi



Artisan Goods: Coffee

Artisan Goods: PicklesAll Cooking except Bread, Fried Egg, Poi, Mango Sticky Rice, Strange Bun, Seafoam Pudding, & Triple Shot EspressoMisc: Life Elixir

Artisan Goods: Beer, Mead, Pale Ale, Piña Colada, WineCooking: Triple Shot Espresso


 Lewis

Artisan Goods: Green TeaCooking: Autumn's Bounty, Glazed Yams, Vegetable Medley










 Linus

Cooking: Blueberry Tart, Dish O' The SeaVegetables: Yam





All Foraged MineralsAll Gems except Diamond & Prismatic Shard




 Marnie

Cooking: Farmer's Lunch, Pink Cake, Pumpkin PieGems: Diamond










 Maru

Cooking: Cheese Cauliflower, Miner's Treat, Pepper Poppers, Rhubarb PieGems: DiamondVegetables: Cauliflower





Misc: Maple Syrup

Artisan Goods: Honey, Pickles


 Pam

Artisan Goods: Beer, Mead, Pale Ale, Piña ColadaCooking: Glazed Yams, Parsnip SoupVegetables: Parsnip










 Penny

Cooking: Poppyseed Muffin, Red Plate, Roots Platter, Tom Kha SoupGems: Diamond, Emerald





Cooking: Algae Soup, Pale Broth

Artisan Goods: Beer, Mead, Pale Ale, Piña Colada, Wine


 Pierre

Cooking: Fried Calamari





All Foraged MineralsAll Gems except Diamond (universally liked) & Prismatic Shard (universally loved)

Cooking: Parsnip Soup, TortillaVegetables: Corn, Garlic


 Robin

Artisan Goods: Goat CheeseCooking: SpaghettiFruit Tree Fruit: Peach










 Sam

Cooking: Maple Bar, Pizza





All Vegetables (except Hops & Wheat, universally neutral)

Artisan Goods: Duck Mayonnaise, Mayonnaise, Pickles


 Sandy

Cooking: Mango Sticky RiceFlowers: Crocus, Sweet Pea










 Sebastian

Cooking: Pumpkin Soup, SashimiForaged Mineral: Frozen Tear





All Flowers (except Poppy, universally hated)

All Artisan Goods (except Coffee, Green Tea, universally liked; and Oil, universally disliked)Cooking: Complete Breakfast, Farmer's Lunch, Omelet


 Shane

Artisan Goods: BeerCooking: Pepper Poppers, Pizza







Artisan Goods: Pickles


 Vincent

Cooking: Cranberry Candy, Ginger Ale, Pink Cake





All Vegetables (except Hops & Wheat, universally neutral)

All Artisan Goods (except Honey, Jelly, universally liked; and Oil, universally disliked)Cooking: Triple Shot Espresso


 Willy

Artisan Goods: MeadGems: DiamondVegetables: Pumpkin

Cooking: Seafoam Pudding (universally hated)

Cooking: Dish O' The Sea, Maki Roll, & Sashimi

All Cooking except for Dish O' The Sea, Maki Roll, & Sashimi as specifically neutral, and the following dishes he likes:  Baked Fish, Carp Surprise, Chowder, Crab Cakes, Crispy Bass, Fish Stew, Fish Taco, Fried Calamari, Fried Eel, Lobster Bisque, Salmon Dinner, Trout Soup & Seafoam PuddingMisc: Life Elixir



Universal Neutrals
This is a list of items that will elicit a neutral response from the villagers, and give 20 points toward friendship. There are some exceptions.


 Bread
 Clam
 Coral
 Duck Feather
 Fried Egg


 Hops
 Nautilus Shell
 Rainbow Shell
 Roe
 Squid Ink


 Sweet Gem Berry
 Tea Leaves
 Truffle
 Wheat
 Wool


Universal Neutrals exceptions
 Caroline likes Tea Leaves.
 Elliott loves Duck Feather & Squid Ink.
 Emily loves Wool.
 Evelyn hates Clam and Coral.
 Harvey likes Duck Feather, dislikes Bread, hates Coral, Nautilus Shell, and Rainbow Shell.
 Leah loves Truffle, dislikes Fried Egg, hates Bread.
 Leo loves Duck Feather, likes Nautilus Shell and Rainbow Shell, hates Hops.
 Maru hates Truffle.
 Penny dislikes Duck Feather and Wool, hates Hops.
 Sandy likes Wool.
Universal Dislikes
This is a list of items that will decrease friendship by 20 points when given as gifts.

All Building Materials -- Battery Packs, Clay, Fiber, Hardwood, Stone, and Wood
All Artifacts
All Bombs
All Crafted Floors & Paths
All Fences
All Fertilizer
All Fish (except for Clam which is a Universal Neutral, and Carp & Snails which are Universal Hates)
All Geode Minerals
All Geodes
All Seeds including Fruit Tree Saplings, Tea Saplings, Acorns, Maple Seeds, and Pine Cones
All Sprinklers
All Tackle
Misc. Mined/Metal Goods -- Bone Fragment, Cinder Shard, Coal, Copper Bars, Gold Bars, Gold Ore, Iridium Bars, Iridium Ore, Iron Bars, and Refined Quartz

 Cave Carrot
 Driftwood
 Field Snack
 Jack-O-Lantern
 Oak Resin


 Oil
 Pine Tar
 Qi Fruit
 Rice


 Solar Essence
 Spring Onion
 Tea Set
 Unmilled Rice


 Vinegar
 Void Egg
 Void Essence
 Wheat Flour


Universal Dislikes exceptions
 Abigail loves Pufferfish; hates Clay
 Clint loves Gold Bar, Iridium Bar, Omni Geode; likes Copper Bar, Iron Bar; is neutral toward Coal, Gold Ore, Iridium Ore, Refined Quartz
 Demetrius is neutral toward All Fish (except Carp & Snail)
 Dwarf loves Lemon Stone and Omni Geode; likes All Artifacts, Cave Carrot; is neutral toward Solar Essence, Void Essence
 Elliott loves Lobster; likes Octopus, Squid; is neutral toward All Other Fish (except Carp & Snail); hates Sea Cucumber
 Evelyn hates All Fish, Clay
 George hates Clay
 Haley hates All Fish, Clay
 Harvey likes Spring Onion
 Jas hates Clay
 Krobus loves Iridium Bar, Void Egg; likes Gold Bar
 Leah likes Driftwood, Spring Onion; hates Void Egg
 Leo is neutral toward All Fish, hates Oil and Unmilled Rice.
 Linus likes Spring Onion; is neutral toward All Fish (except Carp & Snail)
 Marnie hates Clay
 Maru loves Battery Pack, Gold Bar, Iridium Bar; likes Copper Bar, Iron Bar, Oak Resin, Pine Tar
 Pam is neutral toward All Fish (except Carp, Octopus, Snail & Squid); hates Octopus, Squid
 Penny loves Sandfish, likes all Artifacts
 Pierre hates All Fish
 Robin likes Hardwood
 Sam loves Tigerseye; hates Metal Goods
 Sebastian loves Obsidian, Void Egg; likes Flounder; is neutral toward All Fish (except Flounder, Carp & Snail); hates Clay
 Vincent hates Clay
 Willy loves Catfish, Iridium Bar, Octopus, Sea Cucumber, Sturgeon; likes Gold Bar, Lingcod, Tiger Trout; is neutral toward All Other Fish (except Carp & Snail)
 Wizard loves Solar Essence, Void Essence, Super Cucumber; likes All Geode Minerals
Universal Hates
This is a list of items that will decrease friendship by 40 points when given as gifts.
When given a hated gift, villagers usually respond with a hate dialogue bubble.  

All Bait
All Fossils
 All Monster Loot (except Solar Essence and Void Essence which are disliked)
All Trash (except Driftwood which is disliked)

 Artifact Trove
 Bug Steak
 Carp
 Copper Ore
 Crab Pot
 Dragon Tooth
 Drum Block
 Energy Tonic
 Error Item
 Explosive Ammo
 Fairy Dust
 Flute Block
 Grass Starter
 Green Algae
 Golden Coconut


 Hay
 Iron Ore
 Journal Scrap
 Monster Musk
 Muscle Remedy
 Oil of Garlic
 Poppy
 Qi Seasoning
 Radioactive Bar
 Radioactive Ore
 Rain Totem
 Red Mushroom
 Sap
 Sea Urchin
 Seafoam Pudding


 Seaweed
 Secret Note
 Slime Egg (any color)
 Snail
 Strange Bun
 Sugar
 Torch
 Treasure Chest
 Void Mayonnaise
 Warp Totem: Beach
 Warp Totem: Desert
 Warp Totem: Farm
 Warp Totem: Island
 Warp Totem: Mountains
 White Algae


Universal Hates exceptions
 Abigail dislikes Sugar
 Krobus loves Void Mayonnaise; likes Seafoam Pudding
 Leah dislikes Seaweed
 Leo likes Dragon Tooth and Sea Urchin
 Marnie dislikes Seaweed
 Maru loves Radioactive Bar, likes Radioactive Ore
 Penny loves Poppy, dislikes Red Mushroom
 Sam likes Joja Cola, dislikes Seaweed
 Shane dislikes Seaweed
 Vincent loves Snails
 Willy likes Seafoam Pudding
 Wizard dislikes Slime
Achievements
There are 6 Achievements related to Friendship:

A New Friend (Reach a 5-heart friend level with someone)
Best Friends (Reach a 10-heart friend level with someone)
The Beloved Farmer (Reach a 10-heart friend level with 8 people)
Cliques (Reach a 5-heart friend level with 4 people)
Networking (Reach a 5-heart friend level with 10 people)
Popular (Reach a 5-heart friend level with 20 people)
References

↑ See Farmer::resetFriendshipsForNewDay in the game code.

↑ 2.0 2.1 See NPC::receiveGift in the game code.


History
1.07: Decay will now stop if a villager is at max hearts (except when married).
1.3.27: The Golden Pumpkin is now a universal love instead of a universal hate.  Added new item, the Pearl, as a universal love.
1.4: Friendship can now be increased by talking with NPCs at Festivals.  Removed glitch where a birthday gift would remove a checkbox on the social tab. Removed bugs where cooking recipes would be sent at the wrong friendship level, and where 10 heart-events were unlockable without a bouquet. Added Gift Logs, accessed by clicking on the villager in the Social tab.  Changed jealousy of player's spouse to only apply to marriage candidates who have received a bouquet.  Harvey now dislikes many cooked dishes.  Willy is neutral towards Maki Roll, Sashimi, and Dish O' The Sea.  Vincent loves Snails.  Dwarf likes Cave Carrot. Vincent & Jas like Honey and Jelly.  Sebastian hates Mead.
1.4.4: Mermaid's Pendant and Void Ghost Pendant can no longer be given as gifts at the Feast of the Winter Star.  Jas & Vincent now hate Triple Shot Espresso.  Dwarf now loves Lemon Stone.
1.5: Penny and Dwarf now like all artifacts. Artifacts changed from Universal Hate to Universal Dislike for all other NPCs. Fixed bug where the friendship boost for giving a villager two gifts would not apply if they were given a third gift on their birthday.



Retrieved from "https://stardewvalleywiki.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=Friendship&oldid=141230"
Categories: GameplayAchievements



Navigation menu




Personal tools




Create accountLog in






Namespaces




PageDiscussion






Variants












Views




ReadView sourceView history






More









Search



















Navigation




Main pageRecent changesAdmin noticeboardHelp EditingRandom page





Official Links




Official SiteOfficial ForumsOfficial MerchandiseDiscordReddit





Tools




What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPrintable versionPermanent linkPage informationPage values





In other languages




DeutschEspañolFrançaisItaliano日本語한국어MagyarPortuguêsРусскийTürkçe中文






 This page was last edited on 29 August 2022, at 18:30.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike unless otherwise noted.


Privacy policy
About Stardew Valley Wiki
Disclaimers
Mobile view









