




Hardwood - Stardew Valley Wiki








































Hardwood

From Stardew Valley Wiki



Jump to navigation
Jump to search



Warning: Spoilers
This page or section contains unmarked spoilers from update 1.5 of Stardew Valley.  Mobile players may want to avoid or be cautious toward reading this article.




Hardwood





A special kind of wood with superior strength and beauty.


Information 


Source:

Foraging Woodskip (Fish Pond)Mahogany Trees


Sell Price:

15g


Hardwood is a resource. It is obtained by chopping down a Mahogany Tree with any axe, a Large Stump with a Copper Axe or better, or a Large Log with a Steel Axe or better.
Six (6) Large Stumps respawn daily in the Secret Woods, making it possible to obtain 12 Hardwood per day. With the Forest Farm map there are eight (8) more stumps at the left side of the farm making for an additional 16 Hardwood that respawns daily. On the four corners farm 1 respawns at the top left corner making it 14. Hardwood can also be received as loot by breaking barrels and boxes in the Mines. Hardwood is readily available from various trees (using the appropriate axes) in the Dangerous Mines level 41-69.
Normal trees have a chance of dropping Hardwood with the Lumberjack Profession; this can be done with either any axe or any bombs. Several Mahogany Trees on Ginger Island produce hardwood when chopped, and will regrow. Robin may also gift the player 25 Hardwood at the Feast of the Winter Star.
A Woodskip Fish Pond may produce 5 Hardwood when the population of the pond reaches 6.

Contents

1 Recipes
2 Buildings
3 Gifting
4 Bundles
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 Notes
8 History


Recipes


Image

Name

Description

Ingredients

Recipe Source




Cheese Press

Turns milk into cheese.

 Hardwood (10) Wood (45) Stone (45) Copper Bar (1)

 Farming Level 6




Oil Maker

Makes gourmet truffle oil.

 Hardwood (20) Slime (50) Gold Bar (1)

 Farming Level 8




Hardwood Fence

The most durable type of fence.

 Hardwood (1)

 Farming Level 6




Cork Bobber

Slightly increases the size of your "fishing bar".

 Hardwood (5) Wood (10) Slime (10)

 Fishing Level 7




Worm Bin

Produces bait on a regular basis. The worms are self-sufficient.

 Hardwood (25) Gold Bar (1) Iron Bar (1) Fiber (50)

 Fishing Level 8




Warp Totem: Beach

Warp directly to the beach. Consumed on use.

 Hardwood (1) Coral (2) Fiber (10)

 Foraging Level 6




Warp Totem: Mountains

Warp directly to the mountains. Consumed on use.

 Hardwood (1) Iron Bar (1) Stone (25)

 Foraging Level 7




Warp Totem: Farm

Warp directly to your house. Consumed on use.

 Hardwood (1) Honey (1) Fiber (20)

 Foraging Level 8




Warp Totem: Desert

Warp directly to Calico Desert. Consumed on use.

 Hardwood (2) Coconut (1) Iridium Ore (4)

 Desert Trader for  Iridium Bar (10)




Warp Totem: Island

Warp directly to Ginger Island. Consumed on use.

 Hardwood (5) Dragon Tooth (1) Ginger (1)

Volcano Shop (10,000g)




Rain Totem

Activate to greatly increase the chance for rain tomorrow. Consumed on use.

 Hardwood (1) Truffle Oil (1) Pine Tar (5)

 Foraging Level 9




Stump Brazier

Provides a moderate amount of light.

 Hardwood (5) Coal (1)

 Carpenter's Shop (800g)




Carved Brazier

Provides a moderate amount of light.

 Hardwood (10) Coal (1)

 Carpenter's Shop (2,000g)




Cask

Use in the cellar to age products like wine and cheese.

 Hardwood (1) Wood (20)

Farmhouse cellar upgrade




Ostrich Incubator

Hatches ostrich eggs into baby ostriches. Place in a barn.

 Hardwood (50) Bone Fragment (50) Cinder Shard (20)

 Professor Snail after completing his collections and surveys




Heavy Tapper

Place on a maple, oak, or pine tree and wait for the reservoir to fill with product! Works twice as fast as a normal tapper.

 Hardwood (30) Radioactive Bar (1)

 Mr. Qi ( 20)




Mini-Obelisk

Place two on the farm to warp between them.

 Hardwood (30) Solar Essence (20) Gold Bar (3)

 Wizard (Special Order)




Hopper

Items placed inside will automatically be loaded into the machine in front of it.

 Hardwood (10) Iridium Bar (1) Radioactive Bar (1)

 Mr. Qi ( 50)

Buildings


Image

Name

Description

Cost




Farmhouse Upgrade 2

Adds two new rooms, one empty, and one with a crib and two single beds, thus allowing you to have children. Kitchen and bedroom are larger.

50,000g Hardwood (150)




Stable

Allows you to keep and ride a horse. Horse included.

10,000g Hardwood (100) Iron Bar (5)

Gifting


Villager Reactions


Like

 Robin


Dislike

 Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard

Bundles
Ten Hardwood are required for the  Construction Bundle in the Crafts Room.

Tailoring
Hardwood is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create a  Shirt. It is a brown dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed. It can be placed in the orange dye pot at Emily's and Haley's house for use in dyeing.

Quests
Robin requests 10 Hardwood by mail on the 21st of Winter in the "Robin's Request" Quest.  The reward is 500g and 1 Friendship heart.
Robin requests 80 Hardwood in the "Robin's Project" Special Order. The reward is 2,000g and the Deluxe Red Double Bed Recipe.
Willy's Boat needs 200 Hardwood to repair the boat's outer hull.
10 Hardwood are requested by Woodskip in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 1 to 3.
5 Hardwood may be requested by Crayfish, Periwinkle, or Snail in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 5 to 7.
Notes
A Wood Chipper can be used to convert Hardwood into Wood, Maple Syrup, Oak Resin or Pine Tar.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.  The Forester Profession no longer increases the sale price of Hardwood. Used as an ingredient to the Warp Totem: Desert recipe. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests. Can be produced by Fish Ponds.
1.5: Can now be obtained by chopping down Mahogany Trees. Needed in Special Order 'Robin's Project' and repairing Willy's Boat. Used as an ingredient to the Warp Totem: Island, Ostrich Incubator, Heavy Tapper, Mini-Obelisk, and Hopper recipes. No longer used as an ingredient to the Skull Brazier recipe.


Resources


Basic

Battery Pack • Bone Fragment • Cinder Shard • Clay • Coal • Fiber • Hardwood • Stone • Wood


Ore

Copper Ore • Iron Ore • Gold Ore • Iridium Ore • Radioactive Ore


Bars

Copper Bar • Iron Bar • Gold Bar • Iridium Bar • Radioactive Bar • Refined Quartz




Retrieved from "https://stardewvalleywiki.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=Hardwood&oldid=142977"
Category: ResourcesHidden category: Spoilers



Navigation menu




Personal tools




Create accountLog in






Namespaces




PageDiscussion






Variants












Views




ReadView sourceView history






More









Search



















Navigation




Main pageRecent changesAdmin noticeboardHelp EditingRandom page





Official Links




Official SiteOfficial ForumsOfficial MerchandiseDiscordReddit





Tools




What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPrintable versionPermanent linkPage informationPage values





In other languages




DeutschEspañolFrançaisItaliano日本語한국어MagyarPortuguêsРусскийTürkçe中文






 This page was last edited on 4 November 2022, at 15:32.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike unless otherwise noted.


Privacy policy
About Stardew Valley Wiki
Disclaimers
Mobile view









