




Movie Theater - Stardew Valley Wiki








































Movie Theater

From Stardew Valley Wiki



Jump to navigation
Jump to search



Movie Theater








Open Hours:

9:00am to 9:00pm


Address:

Abandoned JojaMart or Joja Warehouse


The Movie Theater is a building that allows players to watch movies, alone or with a guest, once every 7 days. It is unlocked either by completing the Community Center or all community upgrades offered by Morris.
If players choose to restore the Community Center, the night before the first rainy or stormy day after restoring the Center, there is a cutscene of a lightning bolt striking the doors to the abandoned JojaMart. Afterwards, the player may enter the abandoned JojaMart and find the Missing Bundle. The night after completing the Missing Bundle, the Junimos will build a Movie Theater.
If players choose the Joja route, they can purchase the Movie Theater from Morris for 500,000g after completing all other community upgrades.  The Joja Warehouse will then become a Movie Theater.
Players must purchase a Movie Ticket for 1,000g to enter the Movie Theater. A second Movie Ticket can also be purchased for 1,000g and given to a villager in the same way a gift is given. This will invite the villager to attend the movie with the player. To see the movie with the villager, enter the theater on the same day the ticket is gifted; otherwise, the ticket is forgotten.

Contents

1 Movies
2 Concessions
3 Crane Game

3.1 Prizes


4 Notes
5 Trivia
6 References
7 History


Movies
There are 8 movies in total.  Movies repeat on a 2-year cycle, based on the season in which the player unlocks the Movie Theater.  All four "year 1" movies will cycle, followed by year 2 movies, then repeat.  The year in the table below refers to the year in which the player first unlocks the Theater. 
Asking a guest to a loved movie earns 200 Friendship points with the guest, a liked movie earns 100 Friendship points, and a disliked movie neither earns nor costs friendship points with the guest.
Note that Penny will love any movie if Pam is also present. Although it is impossible to invite both of them, there is a small chance that Pam will be in the audience of the movie when inviting Penny, as random community members are sometimes in the movie theater during the movie. 



Poster

Name

Description

Season / Year

Love

Like

Dislike




The Brave Little Sapling

An animated family comedy about a little sprout on a magical adventure to become a tree!

 Spring, Y1

Caroline, Dwarf, Jas, Penny, Sandy, Vincent

Abigail, Alex, Clint, Demetrius, Elliott, Emily, Evelyn, George, Gus, Haley, Harvey, Jodi, Kent, Leah, Leo, Lewis, Marnie, Maru, Pam, Pierre, Robin, Sam, Willy

Krobus, Linus, Sebastian, Shane, Wizard




Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture

The beloved video game comes to the silver screen!

 Summer, Y1

Caroline, Dwarf, Jas, Robin, Sandy, Vincent

Abigail, Alex, Clint, Demetrius, Emily, Evelyn, Gus, Jodi, Kent, Leo, Lewis, Marnie, Maru, Pam, Penny, Pierre, Sam, Sebastian, Shane, Willy

Elliott, George, Haley, Harvey, Krobus, Leah, Linus, Wizard




Mysterium

Peer behind the midnight veil... You must experience to believe!

 Fall, Y1

Abigail, Dwarf, Elliott, Leah, Sandy, Sebastian, Wizard

Alex, Caroline, Clint, Demetrius, Haley, Jodi, Krobus, Leo, Marnie, Maru, Pam, Pierre, Robin, Sam, Shane, Willy

Emily, Evelyn, George, Gus, Harvey, Jas, Kent, Lewis, Linus, Penny, Vincent




The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch

Against all odds, a family keeps the spirit of the Winter Star alive...

 Winter, Y1

Dwarf, Emily, Evelyn, Gus, Harvey, Marnie, Sandy

Alex, Caroline, Clint, Elliott, George, Haley, Jas, Jodi, Kent, Leah, Leo, Lewis, Maru, Pam, Penny, Pierre, Robin, Willy

Abigail, Demetrius, Krobus, Linus, Sam, Sebastian, Shane, Vincent, Wizard




Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World

Take a tour through the lands of the Ferngill Republic... from The Fern Islands to Zuzu City, this world is full of life!

 Spring, Y2

Demetrius, Dwarf, Jas, Leo, Lewis, Maru, Sandy

Abigail, Caroline, Clint, Elliott, Emily, Evelyn, George, Gus, Haley, Harvey, Jodi, Kent, Leah, Marnie, Pam, Penny, Pierre, Robin, Sam, Sebastian, Shane, Willy

Alex, Krobus, Linus, Vincent, Wizard




Wumbus

An absurd sci-fi comedy centered around the life and times of a lumpy guy from another star.

 Summer, Y2

Alex, Demetrius, Dwarf, Gus, Jas, Maru, Pierre, Sam, Sandy, Shane, Vincent

Abigail, Clint, Elliott, Emily, Evelyn, George, Harvey, Jodi, Kent, Leah, Leo, Lewis, Marnie, Pam, Penny, Robin, Sebastian, Willy

Caroline, Haley, Krobus, Linus, Wizard




It Howls In The Rain

A group of youngsters set out to discover the source of a mysterious sound. (Parental Supervision Required)

 Fall, Y2

Abigail, Alex, Dwarf, Sandy, Sebastian, Shane

Caroline, Clint, Demetrius, Gus, Haley, Jodi, Leo, Marnie, Maru, Pam, Pierre, Robin, Sam, Willy

Elliott, Emily, Evelyn, George, Harvey, Jas, Kent, Krobus, Leah, Lewis, Linus, Penny, Vincent, Wizard




The Zuzu City Express

A beloved movie classic, carefully restored for modern theaters.

 Winter, Y2

Dwarf, Evelyn, George, Harvey, Jodi, Sandy

Alex, Caroline, Elliott, Emily, Gus, Haley, Jas, Kent, Leah, Leo, Lewis, Marnie, Maru, Pam, Penny, Pierre, Robin, Willy

Abigail, Clint, Demetrius, Krobus, Linus, Sam, Sebastian, Shane, Vincent, Wizard


Concessions
Players can choose to purchase a snack for their guest at the concessions counter.  Purchasing a loved snack earns 50 Friendship points with the guest, a liked snack earns 25 Friendship points, and a disliked snack neither earns nor costs friendship points with the guest.
Only five foods out of the following are randomly offered at a time for the player to select for their guest. The game tries to populate the list with one loved snack, two liked snacks, and one disliked snack among the five snacks available at the counter, if they exist. If the theater is built from the Joja Warehouse, a JojaCorn is also guaranteed.[1]



Image

Name

Description

Price

Love

Like

Dislike




Apple Slices

Crunchy and sweet little slices.

100g

Harvey

Abigail, Alex, Caroline, Demetrius, Elliott, Emily, Evelyn, Haley, Jas, Kent, Leah, Leo, Lewis, Linus, Marnie, Maru, Penny, Pierre, Robin, Sandy, Sebastian, Vincent

Clint, Dwarf, George, Gus, Jodi, Krobus, Pam, Sam, Shane, Willy, Wizard




Black Licorice

A chewy candy with an intense, pungent flavor.

25g

George, Krobus, Wizard

N/A

Everyone other than George, Krobus, and the Wizard




Cappuccino Mousse Cake

A small chocolate cake glazed with a cappuccino mousse.

220g

Elliott, Evelyn, Gus, Haley

Abigail, Alex, Caroline, Clint, Demetrius, Emily, Harvey, Jas, Jodi, Kent, Leah, Leo, Lewis, Linus, Marnie, Maru, Penny, Pierre, Robin, Sandy, Vincent

Dwarf, George, Krobus, Pam, Sam, Sebastian, Shane, Willy, Wizard




Chocolate Popcorn

It's normal popcorn... but with a chocolate coating.

130g

Jodi

Abigail, Alex, Caroline, Clint, Demetrius, Elliott, Emily, Evelyn, Gus, Haley, Jas, Kent, Leah, Leo, Lewis, Linus, Marnie, Maru, Pam, Penny, Pierre, Robin, Sam, Sandy, Sebastian, Shane, Vincent, Willy

Dwarf, George, Harvey, Krobus, Wizard




Cotton Candy

A large pink cloud of spun sugar.

50g

Penny, Sandy

Abigail, Clint, Demetrius, Dwarf, Emily, Evelyn, Haley, Jas, Leah, Leo, Lewis, Linus, Marnie, Maru, Pam, Pierre, Sam, Sebastian, Shane, Vincent, Wizard

Alex, Caroline, Elliott, George, Gus, Harvey, Jodi, Kent, Krobus, Robin, Willy




Fries

Thin slices of potato, deep fried and then lightly salted.

100g

Clint

Abigail, Alex, Demetrius, George, Gus, Jodi, Kent, Krobus, Lewis, Leo, Linus, Maru, Pam, Penny, Pierre, Robin, Sam, Sandy, Sebastian, Shane, Vincent, Willy

Caroline, Dwarf, Elliott, Emily, Evelyn, Haley, Harvey, Jas, Leah, Marnie, Wizard




Hummus Snack Pack

It's crunchy and healthy.

90g

Shane

Alex, Caroline, Elliott, Emily, Evelyn, Haley, Harvey, Kent, Krobus, Leah, Leo, Lewis, Linus, Marnie, Maru, Penny, Pierre, Robin, Sandy, Sebastian

Abigail, Clint, Demetrius, Dwarf, George, Gus, Jas, Jodi, Pam, Sam, Vincent, Willy, Wizard




Ice Cream Sandwich

Vanilla ice cream sandwiched between two chocolate cookies.

150g

Marnie

Everyone other than George, Harvey, Krobus, and Marnie

George, Harvey, Krobus




Jasmine Tea

Green tea flavored with aromatic jasmine flowers.

50g

Caroline, Harvey, Lewis, Sebastian

Alex, Elliott, Emily, Haley, Jodi, Kent, Krobus, Leah, Leo, Lewis, Linus, Linus, Marnie, Maru, Penny, Pierre, Robin, Sandy, Shane, Willy, Wizard

Abigail, Clint, Demetrius, Dwarf, Evelyn, George, Gus, Jas, Pam, Sam, Vincent




Jawbreaker

It's a big, hard candy that lasts the whole movie!

250g

Vincent

Abigail, Clint, Demetrius, Dwarf, Emily, Evelyn, Haley, Jas, Leah, Leo, Lewis, Linus, Marnie, Maru, Pam, Penny, Pierre, Sam, Sandy, Sebastian, Shane, Wizard

Alex, Caroline, Elliott, George, Gus, Harvey, Jodi, Kent, Krobus, Robin, Willy




Joja Cola

An extra-large cup of Joja's flagship soda.

40g

Shane

Pam, Sam

Everyone other than Pam, Sam, and Shane




JojaCorn

Joja's patented corn food, slathered in plenty of "b'utter sauce".

10g

Shane

Pam

Everyone other than Pam and Shane




Kale Smoothie

It's loaded with vitamins and fiber.

120g

Emily

Alex, Caroline, Elliott, Evelyn, Haley, Harvey, Kent, Krobus, Leah, Leo, Lewis, Linus, Marnie, Maru, Penny, Pierre, Robin, Sandy

Abigail, Clint, Demetrius, Dwarf, George, Gus, Jas, Jodi, Pam, Sam, Sebastian, Shane, Vincent, Willy, Wizard




Nachos

Gooey, spicy cheese on top of freshly fried tortilla chips.

100g

Pam, Shane

Abigail, Alex, Clint, Demetrius, George, Gus, Jodi, Kent, Krobus, Leo, Lewis, Linus, Maru, Penny, Pierre, Robin, Sam, Sandy, Sebastian, Vincent, Willy

Caroline, Dwarf, Elliott, Emily, Evelyn, Haley, Harvey, Jas, Leah, Marnie, Wizard




Panzanella Salad

A summer salad of bread and tomatoes.

200g

Gus, Leah

Alex, Caroline, Elliott, Emily, Evelyn, Haley, Harvey, Kent, Krobus, Leo, Lewis, Linus, Marnie, Maru, Penny, Pierre, Robin, Sandy

Abigail, Clint, Demetrius, Dwarf, George, Jas, Jodi, Pam, Sam, Sebastian, Shane, Vincent, Willy, Wizard




Personal Pizza

A pizza small enough to enjoy as a snack.

150g

Pierre, Sam, Shane

Abigail, Alex, Clint, Demetrius, George, Gus, Robin, Jas, Jodi, Kent, Krobus, Leo, Lewis, Linus, Marnie, Maru, Pam, Penny, Robin, Sandy, Sebastian, Vincent, Willy

Caroline, Dwarf, Elliott, Emily, Evelyn, Haley, Harvey, Leah, Wizard




Popcorn

Popped kernels of corn, dusted lightly with salt and drizzled with butter.

120g

Demetrius, Kent

Abigail, Alex, Caroline, Clint, George, Gus, Jodi, Krobus, Leo, Lewis, Linus, Marnie, Maru, Pam, Penny, Pierre, Robin, Sam, Sandy, Sebastian, Shane, Vincent, Willy

Dwarf, Elliott, Emily, Evelyn, Haley, Harvey, Jas, Leah, Wizard




Rock Candy

Flavored sugar crystals attached to a convenient stick.

90g

Abigail, Dwarf

Clint, Demetrius, Emily, Evelyn, Haley, Jas, Leah, Leo, Lewis, Linus, Marnie, Maru, Pam, Penny, Pierre, Sam, Sandy, Sebastian, Shane, Vincent, Wizard

Alex, Caroline, Elliott, George, Gus, Harvey, Jodi, Kent, Krobus, Robin, Willy




Salmon Burger

A thick slab of salmon on a lightly toasted sesame seed bun.

150g

Alex, Linus, Willy

Everyone other than Alex, Linus, and Willy

N/A




Salted Peanuts

A classic salty treat.

120g

Robin

Abigail, Alex, Caroline, Clint, Demetrius, George, Gus, Jodi, Kent, Krobus, Leo, Lewis, Linus, Maru, Pam, Penny, Pierre, Sam, Sandy, Sebastian, Shane, Vincent, Willy

Dwarf, Elliott, Emily, Evelyn, Haley, Harvey, Jas, Leah, Marnie, Wizard




Sour Slimes

Tiny gummy slimes of assorted colors. They're sprinkled with an extremely sour powder.

80g

Jas

Abigail, Clint, Demetrius, Dwarf, Emily, Evelyn, George, Haley, Harvey, Krobus, Leah, Leo, Linus, Marnie, Maru, Pam, Pierre, Sam, Sebastian, Shane, Vincent, Wizard

Alex, Caroline, Elliott, Gus, Jodi, Kent, Lewis, Penny, Robin, Sandy, Willy




Star Cookie

A star-shaped shortbread cookie with rainbow sprinkles.

150g

Evelyn, Maru, Wizard

Abigail, Alex, Caroline, Clint, Demetrius, Dwarf, Elliott, Emily, Gus, Haley, Jas, Jodi, Kent, Leah, Leo, Lewis, Linus, Marnie, Pam, Penny, Pierre, Robin, Sam, Sandy, Sebastian, Shane, Vincent, Willy

George, Harvey, Krobus




Stardrop Sorbet

A single drop of stardrop essence transforms this sorbet into an extraordinary treat.

1,250g

Everyone other than Leo and Krobus

Leo

Krobus




Truffle Popcorn

Heirloom popcorn sprinkled with truffle salt.

180g

Caroline, Elliott, Gus

Abigail, Alex, Clint, Demetrius, Emily, George, Harvey, Kent, Krobus, Leah, Leo, Lewis, Linus, Maru, Pam, Penny, Pierre, Robin, Sandy, Sebastian, Willy

Dwarf, Evelyn, Haley, Jas, Jodi, Marnie, Sam, Shane, Vincent, Wizard

Crane Game

Inside the lobby is a Crane Game machine.  Players can play the Crane Game for 500g to win prizes. The first time the player visits the Movie Theater, the crane game will always be occupied by a man, and unplayable. Afterwards, before watching a movie, there is a 25% chance that the Crane Game will be occupied.
After paying to play, the player has 3 chances to grab a prize.  There is a 15-second timer for each attempt, which begins when the player first moves the crane. Successfully grabbing a prize on chance 1 or 2 does not end the game. Each time the player pays for a new game, the prizes will be randomized.
The first movement is horizontal, and places the crane (right-arrow on keyboard).  The second movement is vertical, and drops the crane (down-arrow on keyboard).  The crane will drop to the position of its shadow, which can be controlled by holding the down-arrow.  Once the down-arrow button is released, the crane will drop.  When the crane reaches its shadow, it will stop and grab any prize at that location.
The crane may drop the prize on its way to the collection chute at the left.  The further away from the chute the item is, and the less firm the crane's grasp on the item is, the more likely it is to drop it.
Some of the more rare prizes (like the Dinosaur Egg or Movie Ticket) may be hidden behind foliage in the Crane Game, and become dislodged when the crane drops another prize.

Prizes
Anytime: Futan Bear, Futan Rabbit, Small Junimo Plush (any color), Lg. Futan Bear, Dinosaur Egg, Omni Geode, Warp Totem: Farm, Mega Bomb, Movie Ticket, Exotic Tree, Deluxe Tree, House Plant 13, Poster from current movie
Spring: Indoor Hanging Basket, Plush Bunny, Lawn Flamingo, Seasonal Decor, Seasonal Plants #1, 2, 3, or 6
Summer: Indoor Palm, (if Wumbus is playing: Wumbus Statue, Bobo Statue), (if Journey of the Prairie King is playing: Long Palm, Long Cactus)
Fall: Small Wall Pumpkin, Wall Pumpkin, Dried Sunflowers, Grave Stone, Green Serpent Statue, Purple Serpent Statue
Winter: Winter Tree Decal, Big Red Cane, Big Green Cane, Green Canes, Red Canes, Mixed Cane, Tree of the Winter Star
Notes
Krobus will not attend movies on Fridays.
Linus dislikes ALL of the movies; presumably he dislikes going to the movies in general.
On the other hand, the Dwarf and Sandy love all of the movies; presumably they just enjoy the experience.
Unlike presents, the cooldown on movies does not reset on Sunday. The player must wait at least 7 days after having seen a movie to give another Movie Ticket to an NPC or attend a movie alone.
Even though Shane and Pam hate Joja Cola as a gift, Pam likes and Shane loves the Joja Cola concession snack.
Despite being clear analogs for one another, the Personal Pizza and the Pizza have notably different tastes among the NPCs; many NPCs who like Pizza dislike the Personal Pizza.
NPCs that can appear in the lobby include Gunther, the Governor, Famous Painter Lupini, Welwick the Fortune Teller, and Marcello, who appears in Harvey's 10-heart event.
Movie tickets can be purchased on festival days, but entry to the theater is not permitted. Attempting to give a ticket to a villager on a festival day will result in a popup box saying: "The movie theater isn't open on festival days!".
Trivia
In 2011, ConcernedApe created a series of comics called Wumbus World.
References

↑ See MovieTheater::GetConcessionsForGuest in the game code.


History
1.4: Introduced.
1.4.4: Sam now likes Joja Cola as a concessions snack.


Buildings


Merchants

Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower


Houses

1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse


Farm Buildings

Farming

Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Shed  • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well


Special

Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk


Other Buildings

Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut




Retrieved from "https://stardewvalleywiki.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=Movie_Theater&oldid=140957"
Category: Town Locations



Navigation menu




Personal tools




Create accountLog in






Namespaces




PageDiscussion






Variants












Views




ReadView sourceView history






More









Search



















Navigation




Main pageRecent changesAdmin noticeboardHelp EditingRandom page





Official Links




Official SiteOfficial ForumsOfficial MerchandiseDiscordReddit





Tools




What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPrintable versionPermanent linkPage informationPage values





In other languages




DeutschEspañolFrançaisItaliano日本語한국어MagyarPortuguêsРусскийTürkçe中文






 This page was last edited on 18 August 2022, at 18:02.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike unless otherwise noted.


Privacy policy
About Stardew Valley Wiki
Disclaimers
Mobile view









