




Multiplayer - Stardew Valley Wiki





































Multiplayer

From Stardew Valley Wiki



Jump to navigation
Jump to search
 A screenshot of multiplayer showing two cabins and two players.
Multiplayer is an optional game mode in which 1–4 players can join the same world through split-screen, over LAN, or by IP address. Multiplayer is available on the PC (Linux/Mac/Windows) and console (PS4/Switch/Xbox One) versions, but not on mobile (iOS/Android) or PS Vita.
The player who created the world is the "host", and the other players are "farmhands". The host has the save file on their system, and can play it in both multiplayer and single-player mode. If the host isn't online or the farm isn't currently open to other players, then farmhands can't access the world or their characters in that world. Farm ownership can't be transferred to farmhands without modding.

Contents

1 Restrictions
2 Host a world

2.1 Start a new multiplayer world
2.2 Start split-screen mode
2.3 Invite players to a single-player world


3 Join a world
4 Features

4.1 Four Corners farm map
4.2 Cabins
4.3 Profit margins
4.4 Marriage
4.5 Gameplay
4.6 Quests and progress
4.7 Money
4.8 Experience
4.9 Luck
4.10 Time


5 Chat

5.1 Commands
5.2 Emojis


6 Emotes
7 Player Limit
8 Exploits
9 References
10 History


Restrictions
On console only:
Remote multiplayer needs a subscription to that console's online services. (Local split-screen multiplayer is free.)
It is not possible to have both split-screen and remote players at the same time.
On Switch only, split-screen mode is limited to two players. Each player needs a full controller or two Joy Cons.
Crossplatform multiplayer (e.g., PS4 ↔ PC) isn't supported, except between PC versions (e.g., Windows ↔ MacOS).
Host a world
A world can be created specifically for multiplayer, or converted from a single-player world to multiplayer anytime. 

Start a new multiplayer world
To start a new world specifically for multiplayer:

From the title screen, choose Co-Op instead of New.
Click the Host tab.
Click Host New Farm.
Make sure to add one cabin for each player who'll join. Optionally, a profit margin can be set to decide whether players share a wallet or have their own wallets. Profit margins can't be changed after farm creation without save editing, but wallet sharing can be changed and cabins can be built or demolished in-game.
Start split-screen mode
Create or load the save normally.
Build a cabin for each new player in single-player mode.
Connect a controller to the computer/console for each extra player. (The keyboard on PC is always reserved for the first player, though the first player can use a controller too.)
Open the in-game menu and choose the Options tab.
Scroll down to the Multiplayer section and choose Start Local Co-op.
Have each extra player press start on the connected controller.
If the host loaded the world via "Co-Op" on the title screen, they can have both remote and split-screen players in the same world (subject to the restrictions).

Invite players to a single-player world
Build a cabin for each new player in single-player mode.
Save and exit to the title screen.
Open the save file via Co-op instead of Load to let other players join.
Join a world
For the main player, see host a world. For other players:

On PC
Via Steam: multiplayer farms hosted by Steam friends will appear on the co-op join screen.
Via GOG Galaxy or Steam: an invite code appears in the in-game options, which other players can type into the join screen to connect if they also have GOG Galaxy or Steam.
Via split-screen mode (see start split-screen mode).
Via IP address. This may require an open firewall port or virtual LAN service like Hamachi. (By default, the server uses UDP port 24642.[1])
On PlayStation 4
Players can join remotely via PlayStation Plus (requires a subscription).
Up to four players can play in split-screen mode (see start split-screen mode).
On Switch
Players can join remotely via Nintendo Switch Online (requires a subscription). Multiplayer farms hosted by friends will appear on the in-game "join" tab.
Nearby Switch players can play remotely via local communications play (no Nintendo Switch Online subscription needed).
Up to two players can play in split-screen mode (see start split-screen mode).
On Xbox One
Players can join remotely via Xbox Live Gold (requires a subscription).
Up to four players can play in split-screen mode (see start split-screen mode).
Features
Multiplayer mode is mostly identical to singleplayer mode, though certain features are specific to multiplayer only.

Four Corners farm map
 The Four Corners map
The Four Corners farm map was designed with multiplayer mode in mind. Each quadrant of the map features a small area for perks from some of the other farm maps to manifest, as well as a tiny pond for players in quadrants besides the quadrant with the large pond to draw water from. However, the Four Corners Map is also available for singleplayer.

Cabins
For cabin placement, see Cabin Locations
The farm can contain up to 3 cabins (selectable during farm creation). For each cabin built, one player can join the farm. If the farm starts with fewer than 3 cabins (including if the farm was begun as a singleplayer save file), Robin can build up to 3 cabins total on the farm for 100g each. Cabin-building is instantaneous, so extra cabins can be built on the first day of the game.
The host player can also demolish a cabin at any time. Demolishing a cabin removes its occupant from the game, and places their inventory in a chest located where the cabin was.
A cabin can be upgraded at the carpenter's shop by the farmhand who occupies it, but not by the host or any other player. The interior layout of an upgraded cabin is identical to the interior of an upgraded farmhouse. As with the farmhouse, the physical footprint of the cabin does not change when upgraded.

Profit margins
When creating a new multiplayer save, a profit margin of 25%, 50%, 75%, or default (100%) can be chosen. Opting to lower the profit margin helps rebalance the economy in multiplayer mode by reducing the gold obtained when selling most items (including crops, forage, minerals, and cooked foods) to account for the increased productivity from the increased number of active players. For example, at 25% profit margin, Wheat is sold for 6g instead of 25g. 
Purchase prices for seeds at Pierre's General Store and purchase prices for Grass Starter, Sugar, Wheat Flour, and Rice at JojaMart are scaled with the profit margin set. Prices for other items (including Blacksmith and Fish Shop shop items, buildings, and tool upgrades) and quest gold rewards are not affected.
Lowering the profit margin makes gold much harder to come by in the early game. Progressing in all skills evenly, crafting items, and completing Help Wanted quests become far more important. For example, Willy still sells Crab Pots for 1,500g despite the reduced income, so mining iron and crafting Crab Pots may be more economical.

Marriage
Players can marry an NPC, which works the same way as single-player. Each NPC can only be married by one player at a time, and children are added to the married player's home.
Players can marry another player by giving them a wedding ring. Married players get a Stardrop in a purple giftbox next to their home beds after the wedding (equivalent to the Stardrop received from an NPC spouse). A home is eligible for children if it's owned by one of the married players, has the kids' room upgrade, doesn't already have two children, and both players are sleeping in its bed; the game will randomly let one player propose having children to the other, and if accepted, the child will be added to the home that both players are sleeping in (if eligible), else the other player's home (if eligible), else the current home.

Gameplay
Some decisions are made collaboratively by all players by either clicking dialogues or joining areas:
when to sleep, by entering a bed;
when to start a festival, by entering the area;
whether to finish the Community Center or buy a Joja membership.
All players share the same farmland.  Players may choose to pool their money or split it between each player.
Each player has their own energy bar, their own Skills, and their own relationships with NPCs.
Each player has a separate mailbox and spouse porch area also each player can build a separate cellar.
Each NPC can only be married by one player. If multiple players want the same spouse, the first to propose will win their hand.
The 14-heart events can only happen one time per NPC in the hosted game. For example, if one player marries an NPC, completes the 14-heart event, and then divorces the NPC and another player marries that NPC they will not be allowed to complete the 14-heart event with the NPC.
Interactions between players:
Players can marry each other and have children. Players propose to each other using a craftable Wedding Ring. The wedding ring recipe can be obtained at the Traveling Cart for 500g , and will then allow the player to craft a wedding ring with 5 Iridium Bars and a Prismatic Shard.
Players can dance with each other in the Flower Dance Festival (no prior requirements).
Players can see other players’ scores during certain festivals.
Quests and progress
Quest progress is largely kept on an individual level, though players can help each other with quests.
Quests set difficulty based on the highest-level player.
Mine progress is global, and each player can open chests for themselves (using the elevator to reach required floors also satisfies the mine quests).
Museum collection is global, and every player gets their own set of rewards.
The reward for completing the Bulletin Board bundle is applied to all players, although item rewards are only given to the player turning in the bundle.
Completing bundle sets or Joja forms unlocks the final reward for every player. However, only the player who completes a bundle can pick up the reward.
Repairing the bridge at the beach is also global.
Each player's tools have to be upgraded individually, though tools can freely be traded between players depending on need. This also eliminates any possible problems of not having a tool available during the upgrade.
Any player can purchase and place buildings on the farm, though only the host can upgrade the farmhouse and cabins can only be upgraded by their owners.
The permission for moving buildings can be changed with a command
Every player has their own set of Stardrops to obtain, though most of them will be available once any player meets the requirement.
Recipes for cooking and crafting are obtained individually, though of course players can help each other out.
Money
Money can be shared between all players or split individually.
This can be set when creating a new game, or enabled and disabled using the "Town Ledger" in the Mayor's Manor.
If money separation is enabled after the game has started, money will be divided evenly among all players in the game.
If money is not shared, the "Town Ledger" can also be used to send money between players.
For each item placed in the shipping bin, the price is determined by the online player whose professions would most increase it.
Experience
Each player has their own experience points. Whoever commits the action will be the one to gain the experience.

Farming
Whoever harvests a crop gets the experience, regardless of who planted it or any other work done with it.
Whoever interacts with an animal gets the experience.
Mining
Whoever gets the last swing with the pickaxe gets the experience. It is not shared.
Whoever set off a bomb gets experience for destroyed rocks.
If a rock is destroyed by a monster, such as a Dust Sprite, everyone will get experience for it, even if they're not in the Mines.
Foraging
Whoever picks up the forageable gets the experience.
Whoever gets the last swing with the axe when chopping a tree, stump, or log gets the experience. It is not shared.
Fishing
Experience for fish is gained for the player who catches it, as expected.
Whoever empties a crab pot gets the experience, regardless of who set it or baited it.
Combat
Whoever kills the monster gets the experience. It is not shared.
Luck
Players can have different daily luck.
Luck is averaged out between all players for calculations.
Time
Generally speaking, during a day time only pauses while the players attend a festival or when using /pause.
When hosting a multiplayer game, time will behave as in singleplayer until the first farmhand joins. This means the host can simply keep their inventory or menu open while waiting for another player to join.
While in a multiplayer game with 2 or more players time will pause when:

The day has ended and a player is picking a profession or hasn't closed the shipping report.
The players are attending a festival that includes a main event. (Time will skip to the evening once the festival is left.)
The host has paused the game using /pause. (See below)
The Time reaches 02:00 am and a player is still inside a cutscene. (They will pass out once the cutscene is over.)
Split-Screen only: If all players are on a menu or a cutscene, time will pause.
In multiplayer, no other circumstances will cause time to pause, skip forward or move at a different rate than normal.
In particular time will pass while:

In any menu, inventory or dialogue.
A shop's inventory is open. (Continuing the trade remains possible even when the NPC has walked away or gone to sleep.)
In a cutscene. (See above. You can see other players while invisible to them. Time is not displayed.)
Playing an Arcade Game.
Reeling in a fish.
Some actions remain possible while the game is manually paused using /pause:

Players already in a shop menu can buy and sell items.
Players in their inventory/menu can browse and move items around.
Chat
Chat is a feature that allows communicating between players directly through in-game. There are also several commands that can be run in the chat to change settings, direct message other players, etc.

Commands
Commands can be run in the chat box, using a forward slash (/) before the command.
These commands are available for all players:



Command

Description


h,help

Shows a list of available commands.


clear

Clears the game's chat log.


color-list

Displays the list of chat colors:White, red, blue, green, jade, yellowgreen, pink, purple, yellow, orange, brown, gray, cream, salmon, peach, aqua, jungle, plum


color

Syntax: color <color>
Sets your chat to appear in the specified color. To color single lines of chat type [color]Your chat message
Example: /color yellow


dm,message,pm,whisper

Syntax: dm <player> <message>
Send a private message to another player in the same multiplayer session.


emote,e

Syntax: emote <emote>
Performs an emote.


list,users,players

Show a list of names of all players current connected to your game world.


mapscreenshot

Take a screenshot of the entire current location, and save it.


ping

Show the current ping time to the host (for farmhands) or to each farmhand (for the host).


r

Syntax: r <message>
Sends a response message to the last player that sent a direct message to the client.
Example: /r Hello World! to reply to a private message.


These commands only work from the host player:



Command

Description


pause

Pauses the game at the current time for all players in the session, freezing all characters in place.


resume

Resumes the game if it has been paused with /pause


kick

Syntax: kick <player name>
Forcibly disconnected a player from the multiplayer game.


ban

Syntax: ban <player name>
Ban a player (not just their character) from the current farm. Specify a player name, user ID, or IP address.


unban

Syntax: unban <player name>
Remove a ban from a player so that they can rejoin the multiplayer session.


unbanAll

Unbans all players that are currently banned, so that they can rejoin the multiplayer session.


sleepannouncemode

Syntax: sleepannouncemode <mode>
Changes when alerts are sent to chat when a player has gone to sleep in multiplayer.
Examples:
/sleepannouncemode off will disable notifications
/sleepannouncemode first will announce the first time a player sleeps in one day
/sleepannouncemode all will announce every time a player starts sleeping


mbp,movebuildpermission,movepermissiong

Syntax: mbp <permission>
Changes farmhands permissions to move buildings from the Carpenter's Shop
Examples:
/mbp off to entirely disable moving buildings
/mbp owned to allow farmhands to move buildings that they purchased
/mbp on to allow moving all buildings


Emojis
See: Multiplayer/Emojis
Emotes
See Multiplayer/Emotes
Player Limit
The default limit for farmhands is 3 (4 players total), but can be changed on PC (without having to install any mods) by manually changing the game's config files.[2] Note that this is experimental and may make the game unstable.[3]
To change the limit, find the following file:

On Windows
%AppData%\StardewValley\startup_preferences
On Linux
~/.config/StardewValley/startup_preferences
Change the value of <playerLimit>-1</playerLimit> to the amount of players that you want to allow in your games, such as to <playerLimit>10</playerLimit> to allow 10 players.
A value of -1 uses the default amount of players.

Exploits
If two or more players pick up an item, take an item from a table, or break a rock at the same time, they will both receive the resulting item(s), essentially duplicating it.
If a player breaks something with a chance drop such as an Iridium Node, the game will roll the chance for all players. If a player not breaking the rock/node succeeds in these chances, the chance item will drop nearby.
References

↑ See StardewValley.Network::Server in the game code.

↑ Tweeted by ConcernedApe

↑  Caution from ConcernedApe


History
1.3.27: Introduced.
1.4: Added ability to choose shared or separate money and Four Corners Farm Map. Daily luck is now averaged. Quest difficulty is now based on the highest-skilled player.
1.5: Split-Screen added with up to four players.  Farmhands' chest of drawers replaced with a normal fireplace.



Retrieved from "https://stardewvalleywiki.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=Multiplayer&oldid=142411"
Category: Gameplay



Navigation menu




Personal tools




Create accountLog in






Namespaces




PageDiscussion






Variants












Views




ReadView sourceView history






More









Search



















Navigation




Main pageRecent changesAdmin noticeboardHelp EditingRandom page





Official Links




Official SiteOfficial ForumsOfficial MerchandiseDiscordReddit





Tools




What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPrintable versionPermanent linkPage informationPage values





In other languages




DeutschEspañolFrançaisItaliano日本語한국어MagyarPortuguêsРусскийTürkçe中文






 This page was last edited on 19 October 2022, at 19:39.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike unless otherwise noted.


Privacy policy
About Stardew Valley Wiki
Disclaimers
Mobile view









