




Quests - Stardew Valley Wiki





































Quests

From Stardew Valley Wiki



Jump to navigation
Jump to search



Warning: Spoilers
This page or section contains unmarked spoilers from update 1.5 of Stardew Valley.  Mobile players may want to avoid or be cautious toward reading this article.

Quests are set objectives that provide rewards when completed.  They're kept track of in the quest journal, which can be brought up by clicking the exclamation point icon at the bottom of the date/time display in the upper right of the screen, or by using the hotkey F. Quests are listed in the journal by title, and each quest can be expanded to read the text and requirements for completion.  Clicking the X at the top of the window will close it and there's a button under the journal window to cancel the selected quest. 
There are two major types of quests, story quests and Help Wanted quests. Story quests are typically received in the mail, but a few are automatically accepted at the beginning of the game to help teach the player about the game.  Story quests can be completed at any time after receiving them; there is no time limit or expiration date.

Contents

1 Help Wanted Quests

1.1 Achievements
1.2 Types


2 List of Story Quests
3 List of Quest Items
4 List of Special Orders
5 List of Mr. Qi's Special Orders
6 Trivia
7 Bugs
8 History


Help Wanted Quests
 Example of a randomly generated Help Wanted quest
Every day the bulletin board outside Pierre's General Store may have a randomly generated Help Wanted quest that can be completed in exchange for money and sometimes increased friendship with the quest giver. When a new quest is available, the bulletin board will have a yellow exclamation point floating above it. Rewarded money depends on the number of items/monsters involved, the player's skills, and sometimes a bit of randomness. Once the player has accepted a Help Wanted quest they will have 2 days to complete it, the current day and the next.  
If a daytime festival occurs during the 2-day period, it may not be possible to complete the quest on the festival day, since most shops and homes are "locked".  See the Shop Schedules page for more information.

Achievements
There are 2 Achievements associating with completing Help Wanted Quests. Note that completing Special Order quests (both from Mr. Qi and in Pelican Town) count towards the required "Help Wanted" quests.

Gofer (Complete 10 'Help Wanted' requests)
A Big Help (Complete 40 'Help Wanted' requests)
Earning these achievements unlocks unique Hats at the Abandoned House in Cindersap Forest.  In addition, the day after earning "Gofer", Lewis will send 500g in the mail.  The day after earning "A Big Help", Lewis will send 2,500g in the mail.

Types
There are 4 types of Help Wanted quests that can be posted.  There is no penalty for accepting a quest and then not completing it.



Gathering

Clint will ask the player to collect copper, iron, or gold ores, usually 20-40, or coal for him to inspect, or Robin will ask the player to gather wood or stone.
Items must be collected after accepting the quest. Items stored in inventory or chests will not work. It is not necessary to have the requested items in inventory to complete a gathering quest.  Once the required number of items have been gathered (as indicated by the counter in the journal), simply talking to the villager who requested the items is sufficient to complete the quest.



Slay Monsters

Requires access to The Mines.
Clint, Lewis, Demetrius, or the Wizard will ask the player to slay a random number of a specific monster.
Once the required number of monsters have been slain (as indicated by the counter in the journal), talking to the villager who made the request will complete it.
Note that a villager will never ask a player to slay a monster they do not have access to yet. For example, a quest to slay Shadow Shaman will never be asked until the player has reached at least level 80 of The Mines.



Fishing

Demetrius or Willy will ask the player to catch from 1-5 of a specific fish from the current season, either to lower the population of that fish or to keep the art of fishing alive.
The reward is the base sell price of the fish × the number of fish requested, and the player gets to keep the fish.
Note that it is not necessary to have the requested fish in inventory to complete a fishing quest.  Once the required number of fish have been caught (as indicated by the counter in the journal), talking to the villager who made the request will complete it.



Item Delivery

This is the most common type of Help Wanted quest. Any adult villager that the player has met and can earn friendship with will ask for a random item for various reasons.
This item can be:

A crop, forageable, or fish from the current season. Items the player does not have access to will not be requested. For example, Sandfish will never be requested until the player has unlocked The Desert. Purple Mushrooms will not be requested until the player has reached level 40 of The Mines. However, weather-dependent fish can be requested in any weather.
A gem, once the player has reached the bottom of The Mines.
A metal bar, if the player can craft a furnace.
An animal product, if the player has an animal that produces it.
Villagers will reward the player with gold equivalent to three times the item's normal value, which may make Item Delivery quests a more efficient method of earning money from items than shipping them.  The player also earns 150 Friendship points with the requesting villager for completing the quest, with the exception of divorced spouses.
To complete an Item Delivery quest, the player must hand the item to the requestor.  Simply having the item in inventory when talking to them will not complete the quest.  Note that completing an Item Delivery quest does not count as giving them a gift.
Note:  Jas, Vincent, Krobus, the Dwarf, and the player's spouse will never make Delivery requests.  Sandy will make Delivery requests once the player has unlocked The Desert.


List of Story Quests
In addition to quests posted on the "Help Wanted" board, there are several Story Quests unlocked during gameplay.  There is no penalty for accepting a Story Quest involving item delivery and then deleting it from the player's journal without completing it.  Story Quests do not count towards the "Gofer" or "A Big Help" Achievements.
Note that the game adds 255 Friendship points for quests that say "1 Friendship heart", rather than exactly 250 points.



Quest Name

Quest Text

Provided By

Requirements

Rewards


Introductions

It would be a nice gesture to introduce yourself around town. Some people might be anxious to meet the new farmer.

Introductory quest

28 people greeted

100 Friendship points (2/5 of a heart) with every known NPC


How to Win Friends

Giving gifts is a great way to build friendships. Learn each person's individual tastes and you'll be popular in no time.

Complete "Introductions"

Give anyone a gift.

100g


Getting Started

If you want to become a farmer, you have to start with the basics. Use your hoe to till the soil, then use a seed packet on the tilled soil to sow a crop. Water every day until the crop is ready for harvest.

Package in room at start

Cultivate and harvest a parsnip

100g


To The Beach

Someone named Willy invited you to visit the beach south of town. He says he has something to give you.

Mail, Spring 2

Visit the beach south of town before 5:00pm.

Bamboo Pole


Raising Animals

Robin, the local carpenter, lives north of town. In exchange for raw materials and money, she'll construct new buildings on your farm. You'll need her to build a coop or barn so that you can raise animals.

Complete "Getting Started"

Build a Coop.Note that this quest does not require the player to purchase animals.

100g


Advancement

As you gain experience you'll discover new crafting recipes to increase profit and make life easier. A Scarecrow, for example, will prevent crows from snacking on your precious crops.

Complete "Getting Started"

Reach Farming level 1 and craft a Scarecrow.

100g


Explore The Mine

There's an old mine shaft in the mountains north of town. There could be valuable minerals inside, but Marlon hinted that it might be dangerous.

Enter The Mines.

Reach level 5 in The Mines.




Deeper In The Mine

It seems that the mine elevator is still functional. It will allow you to quickly return to any elevator doors you've discovered. A deeper expedition might be in order.

Reach level 5 in The Mines.

Reach level 40 in The Mines.




To The Bottom?

So far, there's no sign of the bottom. How low does it go?

Reach level 40 in The Mines.

Reach the bottom of The Mines.




Archaeology

Gunther asked if you'd consider donating any new artifacts or minerals you find to the museum. He says he'll compensate you by way of occasional rare goods.

Enter the Museum with a mineral or artifact in inventory

Donate an item to the Museum.

250g


Rat Problem

There's something odd going on in the Community Center...  Investigate the Community Center

Trigger the initial Community Center cutscene by entering Pelican Town from the Bus Stop between 8am and 1pm on a sunny day (Spring 5+)

Enter the Community Center and examine the Golden Scroll in the Crafts Room.

The following morning, a letter from the Wizard arrives in the mail, triggering the "Meet the Wizard" quest.


Meet the Wizard

You received a letter from the local wizard. He claims to have information regarding the old community center.

The morning after the player examines the first golden scroll in the Community Center, they receive a letter from the Wizard saying he has information.

Enter the wizard's tower.

The Wizard gives the player a potion that allows them to read the language of the Junimos.


Forging Ahead

If you're going to keep mining you should build a furnace.

Morning after collecting a Copper Ore, Clint visits and gives the player the Furnace blueprints

Craft a Furnace




Smelting

Now that you've built a furnace, you can smelt some metal. According to Clint's instructions, if you place 5 copper ore and 1 piece of coal in the furnace, it should produce a copper bar.

Complete "Forging Ahead"

Use the crafted furnace to smelt a copper bar.




Initiation

If you can slay 10 slimes, you'll have earned your place in the Adventurer's Guild.

Mailbox, morning after reaching level 5 in The Mines

10 Slimes slain in The Mines (Slimes slain in the Secret Woods do not count towards this quest)

Get to enter the Adventurer's Guild


Robin's Lost Axe

Robin lost her favorite axe. The last time she remembers using it, she was cutting wood south of Marnie's ranch.

Mail, Spring 11

 Robin's AxeFind Robin's lost axe. Can be found near the Sewer Pipe in Cindersap Forest.

250g, 1 Friendship heart


Jodi's Request

Jodi needs a fresh cauliflower for a recipe she's making. She's asking you to bring her one.

Mail, Spring 19

Bring Jodi a Cauliflower

350g, 1 Friendship heart


Mayor's "Shorts"

Mayor Lewis has lost his purple "shorts". He's asking you to find and return them...Discreetly.

Mail, Summer 3

Find and return Mayor Lewis' purple shorts. Can be found in Marnie's bedroom

750g, 1 Friendship heart


Blackberry Basket

It's blackberry season, but Linus can't find his basket! He's asking you to help him find it. He has no idea where it is.

Mail, Fall 8

 Linus's basketFind Linus' basket and return it to him.  It's in the Backwoods near the entrance to the tunnel, which is to the left of the bus stop.

1 Friendship heart


Marnie's Request

Marnie came by the farm and asked if you'd bring her a cave carrot. She's trying to train her goats to speak, and cave carrot is their favorite snack.

She visits the farm house after the player is at 3 Friendship hearts with her

Bring a Cave Carrot into Marnie's shop.

100 Friendship points


Pam Is Thirsty

Pam is hankerin' for a pale ale. Regular old beer won't do. You can brew one yourself if you have hops and a keg.

Mail, Summer 14

Bring Pam a pale ale

350g, 1 Friendship heart


A Dark Reagent

The wizard wants you to descend into the mines and fetch him a Void Essence. He needs it for some kind of dark magic.

Mail, Winter 12

Bring the Wizard a Void Essence

1,000g, 1 Friendship heart


Cow's Delight

Marnie wants to give her cows a special treat. She's asking for a single bunch of amaranth.

Mail, Fall 3

Bring Marnie one bunch of Amaranth.

500g, 1 Friendship heart


The Skull Key

You found a strange looking key in the bottom of the mines.

Reach the bottom level of The Mines.

Discover the purpose of the Skull Key.

Access to the Skull Cavern in the desert


Crop Research

Demetrius needs a fresh melon for his research.

Mail, Summer 20

Bring Demetrius a melon

550g, 1 Friendship heart


Knee Therapy

George needs a hot pepper to soothe his aching knee

Mail, Summer 25

Bring George a hot pepper

200g, 1 Friendship heart


Robin's Request

Robin needs 10 pieces of Hardwood

Mail, Winter 21

Bring Robin 10 Hardwood

500g, 1 Friendship heart


Qi's Challenge

You've been challenged to reach level 25 in the skull cavern. You've been promised a substantial reward if you're successful.

Received by mail the day after entering the Skull Cavern.

Reach level 25 in the Skull Cavern.

10,000g, delivered by mail the next day


The Mysterious Qi

Within a secret lock-box, you found a note with peculiar instructions. It's signed by a 'Mr. Qi'.

Put a Battery Pack in the lock-box in the tunnel next to the bus stop.

Leave a Rainbow Shell in the box at the train platform.




You found another note written by 'Mr. Qi'. The request is even more unusual this time.

Complete "The Mysterious Qi" first quest

Place 10 beets inside Mayor Lewis' fridge.




You've found yet another strange note within the Mayor's fridge. This time, the instructions are more cryptic.

Complete "The Mysterious Qi" second quest

"Give the sand dragon his final meal." (Put a Solar Essence in the sand dragon's mouth at The Desert.)




You found another note in the sand dragon's eye. It seems Mr. Qi's strange scavenger hunt has come to an end.

Complete "The Mysterious Qi" third quest

Inspect the lumber pile beside the Farmhouse.

Club Card, which grants access to the Casino in the Oasis.


Carving Pumpkins

Caroline wants to carve a pumpkin with her daughter. She asked you to bring her one from the farm.

Mail, Fall 19

Bring Caroline a pumpkin.

500g, 1 Friendship heart


A Winter Mystery

You encountered a suspicious looking figure by the bus stop. When it saw you, it fled toward town. Could there be a clue to its whereabouts?

Mail, after triggering the cutscene by entering the Bus Stop from the Farm during Winter between 6am and 4pm.

Interact with the bush to the right of the playground in Pelican Town

Magnifying Glass


Strange Note

You found a note, barely legible, asking you to bring "may-pal serrup" to the "seecrit wuds".

Mail, after reading Secret Note #23

Enter the Secret Woods between 6am and 7pm with Maple Syrup in inventory to trigger a cutscene.

Bear's Knowledge


Cryptic Note

You found a note that reads, "Someone is waiting for you on level 100 in the Skull Cavern"

Reading Secret Note #10

Reach level 100 of the Skull Cavern

Mr. Qi awards the player with "iridium snake milk", which permanently increases Health by 25 points.


Fresh Fruit

Emily wants a taste of spring. She's asking for a fresh apricot.

Mail, Spring 6, Year 2

Bring Emily an Apricot.

600g, 1 Friendship heart


Aquatic Research

Demetrius is studying the toxin levels of the local pufferfish. He'd like you to bring him one.

Mail, Summer 6, Year 2

Bring Demetrius a Pufferfish.

1,000g, 1 Friendship heart


A Soldier's Star

Kent wants to give his wife a starfruit for their anniversary.

Mail, Summer 15, Year 2

Bring Kent a starfruit.

500g, 1 Friendship heart


Mayor's Need

Mayor Lewis wants truffle oil. He won't explain what it's for. Maybe it's none of your business.

Mail, Summer 21, Year 2

Bring Lewis a bottle of Truffle Oil.

750g, 1 Friendship heart


Wanted: Lobster

Gus put out a notice requesting a fresh lobster.

Mail, Fall 6, Year 2

Bring Gus a Lobster.

500g, 1 Friendship heart


Pam Needs Juice

Pam's TV remote is dead. She's having a tough time going back and forth between the couch and the TV dial.

Mail, Fall 19, Year 2

Bring Pam a Battery Pack.

400g, 1 Friendship heart


Fish Casserole

Jodi swung by the farm to ask you to dinner at 7:00 PM.  Her only request was that you bring a Largemouth Bass for her fish casserole.

Event - Jodi at 4 Hearts; Exit the Farmhouse between 6am and 9:30am on a Monday to trigger the event

Enter Jodi's house with a Largemouth Bass at 7:00 PM on any day after being invited (not a festival day).

Event Scene


Catch a Squid

Willy is challenging you to catch a squid.  He says you can fish them from the ocean on winter nights.

Mail, Winter 2

Bring Willy a Squid.

800g, 1 Friendship heart


Fish Stew

Gus wants to make fish stew, but he needs an albacore.

Mail, Winter 26

Bring Gus an Albacore.

400g, 1 Friendship heart


Pierre's Notice

Pierre will pay "top coin" to whoever brings him a plate of sashimi. Apparently he's really craving the stuff.

Mail, Spring 21, Year 2

Bring Pierre some Sashimi.

1,000g, 1 Friendship heart


Clint's Attempt

Clint wants you to give Emily an amethyst. He wants you to tell her it's from him.

Mail, Winter 6

Bring Emily an Amethyst.

1 Friendship heart with Emily


A Favor For Clint

Clint got a new hammer and he wants to test it out on a variety of metals.

Mail, Winter 17

Bring Clint an Iron Bar.

500g, 1 Friendship heart


Staff of Power

The Wizard is creating a staff of phenomenal power. Who knows what it's for. He needs an iridium bar to finish it.

Mail, Winter 5, Year 2

Bring Wizard an Iridium Bar.

5,000g, 1 Friendship heart


Granny's Gift

Evelyn wants to surprise her husband with a gift.

Mail, Spring 15, Year 2

Bring Evelyn a Leek.

500g, 1 Friendship heart


Exotic Spirits

Gus wants to make a Coco-no-no, but he's missing the main ingredient.

Mail, Winter 19, Year 2

Bring Gus a Coconut.

600g, 1 Friendship heart


Catch a Lingcod

Willy is challenging you to catch a Lingcod.

Mail, Winter 13, Year 2

Bring Willy a Lingcod.  (Does not have to be caught after accepting the quest)

550g, 1 Friendship heart


Dark Talisman

The Wizard asked me to retrieve the magic ink from his ex-wife's house... but to gain access I'll need a dark talisman. Enter the sewer and ask Krobus about the dark talisman.

Railroad cutscene (after completing Community Center or Joja Warehouse tasks)

Speak to Krobus and then venture through to the Mutant Bug Lair to retrieve the talisman. Return to the cave at the Railroad with it once it's collected.

Access to Witch's Swamp


Goblin Problem

There's a goblin blocking the path to the Witch's Hut. There must be some way to get him to move... Perhaps I should seek out more information on Goblins.

Through the cave by the Railroad after completing the Dark Talisman quest.

Speak to the Henchman outside the Witch's hut and give him Void Mayonnaise as a gift.  Take the Magic Ink from the Witch's Hut and give it to the Wizard.

Wizard buildings available. Dark shrines now accessible in Witch's Hut.


The Pirate's Wife

An old lady living on Ginger Island is asking you to find a keepsake of her husband's. She gave you an old photograph of a soldier that washed up on shore, hoping it would help in some way.

Speak to Birdie


Give the War Memento to Kent
Give the Gourmet Tomato Salt to Gus
Give the Stardew Valley Rose to Sandy
Give the Advanced TV Remote to George
Give the Arctic Shard to the Wizard
Give the Wriggling Worm to Willy
Give the Pirate's Locket to Birdie

 Fairy Dust Recipe, 5 Golden Walnuts

List of Quest Items
Quest Items are items that do not have any use outside of their intended quests, aside from occasional easter eggs.
They cannot be sold. If a quest item is lost, it can be retrieved from the lost & found box in Mayor Lewis's house.



Image

Name

Description

Quest




Lost Axe

Robin's been looking everywhere for it.

Robin's Lost Axe




Lucky Purple Shorts

Better not inspect these too closely.

Mayor's "Shorts"




Berry Basket

The fibers are stained with berry juice.

Blackberry Basket




War Memento

It's a faded photograph of a soldier...

The Pirate's Wife




Gourmet Tomato Salt

A rare, delicious and savory salt.

The Pirate's Wife




Stardew Valley Rose

A rose that reminds you of the valley. It smells heavenly.

The Pirate's Wife




Advanced TV Remote

It has more buttons than a regular remote. Perfect for the avid TV watcher!

The Pirate's Wife




Arctic Shard

This shard glows with an otherworldly blue light.

The Pirate's Wife




Wriggling Worm

It's a wriggling, wet worm.

The Pirate's Wife




Pirate's Locket

It's an old pirate's keepsake.

The Pirate's Wife

List of Special Orders
 The Special Order board in Spring.
During a cutscene that is available starting on Fall 2, Year 1, regardless of the weather, a special orders board is installed in front of the Mayor's Manor. This board has larger orders that would not be normally found on the Help Wanted board. Unlike Help Wanted requests, these orders are automatically filled without speaking to the requestor. Additionally, the special orders cannot be cancelled from the individual player quest listing, and time must be allowed to run out. Unless specified, the resources needed for special orders must be collected after the special order has been accepted. On orders that require the player to place items in a container, resources collected before the quest was accepted may be placed in said container, however, new resources must still be obtained. For example, 24 pre-acquired eggs may be placed in the Saloon fridge, but 24 more eggs must still be harvested afterwards to complete the order.
New special orders become available on Monday. The maximum timeframe for a special order, if it is accepted on the day it is posted, varies from 7 to 28 days, depending on the special order. However, the allotted time for a special order decreases every day regardless of whether it has been accepted by the player or not. Hence, if the player starts a special order with a maximum timeframe of 7 days on Wednesday, the time given for completion will only be 5 days. The table below indicates maximum timeframes.
A new special order can be accepted each week, even if another one is still ongoing; multiple special orders can be active at the same time. 
When doing a special order that requires shipping items, the player can ship the remaining items on the final day. The progress bar only tracks items shipped on previous days and this can create the impression that items shipped need to be shipped before the last day, but they do not.
The table below states whether special orders are repeatable after having been successfully completed. All special orders will show up again if attempted and failed.
If the player partially completes a special order but ultimately fails, the donated goods can be picked up in the Lost and Found box in the Mayor's house.



Quest Name

Quest Text

Provided By

Prerequisites

Maximum Timeframe

Requirements

Rewards

Repeatable


Island Ingredients

I want to experiment with tropical cooking, but it's hard to find any ingredients. If someone could ship 100 (Taro Root / Ginger / Pineapple), it might help!

 Caroline

Ginger Island unlocked

28 days

Harvest, then ship 100 of one of the following:
 Taro Root
 Ginger
 Pineapple
Crops must be harvested while quest is active. Ginger dropped by Tiger Slimes counts toward the total.


Gold equivalent to 50% of the base crop price
Tiller profession bonus applies to Taro Root and Pineapple if the player has chosen that profession.
 Solar Panel recipe

Yes


Cave Patrol

The number of [Monster] in the local caves have made mining dangerous... for other people, not me! There's good money for anyone willing to slay 50 of them. -Clint

 Clint

None

7 days

Slay 50 of one of the following:
Bats
Dust Sprites
Skeletons
Grubs


6,000g
 Geode Crusher recipe

Yes


Aquatic Overpopulation

For unknown reasons, the local population of [Fish] has grown to an unsustainable level. I need a local angler to help reduce their numbers.

 Demetrius

None

7 days

Catch 10 of one of the following (depending on the season):
Spring: Flounder, Halibut, Largemouth Bass, Sardine, Sunfish
Summer: Dorado, Rainbow Trout, Red Mullet, Tilapia, Tuna
Fall: Albacore, Midnight Carp, Salmon, Tiger Trout
Winter: Lingcod, Perch, Squid


Gold equivalent to selling the fish (includes quality prices but not profession price bonuses)
 Farm Computer recipe

Yes


Biome Balance

For unknown reasons, the local population of [Fish] has grown to an unsustainable level. I need a local angler to help reduce their numbers.

 Demetrius

None

7 days

Catch 20 of one of the following:
River Fish
Ocean Fish
Lake Fish


1,500g
 Farm Computer recipe

Yes


Rock Rejuvenation

Hey! I'm going to invite some friends over to do a "rock rejuvenation" ceremony, but I'll need some crystals to channel the right energies. Do you think you could lend me a hand?

 Emily

Have access to the Sewing Machine in Emily's House

7 days


Deliver to Emily all of the following:

 Ruby (1)
 Topaz (1)
 Emerald (1)
 Jade (1)
 Amethyst (1)
Can be collected before accepting the special order
When giving Amethyst, it may count towards the Clint's Attempt story quest instead



1,000g
250 Friendship points
 Sewing Machine
"Rock Rejuvenation" ceremony cutscene at Emily's House

No


Gifts for George

George thinks no one in town cares about him. I'd like to prove him wrong! A dozen leeks should do the trick... they're his favorite. -Evelyn

 Evelyn

Spring

28 days


Collect, then place onto Evelyn's stove:

 Leek (12)
Items must be collected while quest is active. Leeks grown and harvested from Spring Seeds count toward this quest.



2,000g
 Coffee Maker
"Leek Surprise Gift" cutscene at George's House.

No


Fragments of the past

Calling all amateur paleontologists! I need 100 pieces of bone for my studies. Please drop them off at the museum counter! -Gunther

 Gunther

None

7 days


Collect 100 of any combination of bone items, then dump in the box in the Museum



List of bone items 



 Amphibian Fossil
 Bone Flute
 Bone Fragment
 Fossilized Leg
 Fossilized Ribs
 Fossilized Skull
 Fossilized Spine
 Fossilized Tail
 Mummified Bat
 Mummified Frog
 Nautilus Fossil
 Palm Fossil
 Prehistoric Rib
 Prehistoric Scapula
 Prehistoric Skull
 Prehistoric Tibia
 Prehistoric Vertebra
 Skeletal Hand
 Skeletal Tail
 Snake Skull
 Snake Vertebrae
 Trilobite

Items must be collected while quest is active.



3,500g
 Bone Mill recipe

No


Gus' Famous Omelet

I've got the urge to make my famous giant omelet... but I'll need two dozen eggs. Any takers?

 Gus

None

14 days


Collect, then place into the fridge of The Stardrop Saloon:

24 Eggs gathered from the ground or from an Auto-Grabber after the quest begins
Eggs can be from any animal (e.g., chicken, duck, dinosaur). Chicken eggs can be of any size and color.



3,000g (each time)
 Mini-Fridge (only the 1st time)
"Giant Omelet" cutscene at The Stardrop Saloon (only the 1st time)

Yes


Crop Order

[Crop] are in high demand this year. Anyone who ships 100 [Crop] by the end of the season will earn a substantial reward from the Pelican Town Agricultural Fund.

 Lewis

Not Winter

28 days


Harvest, then ship 100 of one of the following (depending on the season):

Spring: Cauliflower, Garlic, Green Bean, Potato
Summer: Blueberry, Hot Pepper, Melon, Radish, Tomato, Wheat
Fall: Amaranth, Artichoke, Bok Choy, Cranberries, Eggplant, Grape, Pumpkin, Yam
Crops must be harvested while quest is active.



Gold equivalent to 50% of the base quality crop price (Tiller profession bonus applies if the player has chosen that profession)
 Mini-Shipping Bin by mail (only the 1st time)

Yes


Community Cleanup

I have an idea. There's a lot of trash in the water. Why don't we fish some out to make the valley more beautiful? -Linus

 Linus

None

7 days

Gather, then dump in the bin at the train platform:
20 trash items (except Joja Cola)
Gathering counter works with Crab Pots and Garbage Cans.



500g
250 Friendship points
 Fiber Seeds recipe
"Community Cleanup" cutscene at the Mountain Lake

No


The Strong Stuff

Heard there's a spirit made out of potatoes that really packs a whallop, if you know what I mean. Mind dropping a few taters into a keg and bringing me a batch or two?

 Pam

Spring

14 days

Collect, then place in Pam's kitchen:
12 Potato Juice
Juice must be collected from Keg while quest is active.



3,000g
250 Friendship points
"Potato Juice" cutscene in Trailer
F.I.B.S. television channel

No


Pierre's Prime Produce

Hello there. For an upcoming promotion, I'm thinking of offering some high-quality vegetables at a slight premium...Know where a thrifty shopkeep might find 25 gold-star vegetables?

 Pierre

None

28 days


Harvest, then dump in the bin in Pierre's General Store:

25 Gold-quality Vegetables
Items must be harvested while the quest is active. Iridium quality vegetables and vegetables harvested by Junimos do not count.



2,500g
Cutscene at the General Store
 Mini-Shipping Bin by mail the day after the cutscene

No


Robin's Project

Hey! I have an idea for a new style of bed, but I'll need 80 hardwood to make it happen. Can anyone help? -Robin

 Robin

None

7 days

Collect:
 Hardwood (80)



2,000g
250 Friendship points
"Robin's Project" cutscene at Robin's house
 Deluxe Red Double Bed can be purchased from Robin

No


Robin's Resource Rush

I'm putting on a little promotion, just for fun. If anyone can collect 1000 pieces of [Resource] in a week, they'll earn a reward. And you can keep the [Resource]! -Robin

 Robin

None

7 days

Collect 1000 of:
 Wood or
 Stone
Can be purchased from Robin's shop. Wood obtained from a Wood Chipper counts.



2,500g
 Stone Chest recipe

Yes


Juicy Bugs Wanted!

Hey there, I'm looking for a big wad o' bug guts. The juicier the better... at least that's what the crabs seem to like... 100 pieces should do the trick.

 Willy

None

7 days


Collect, then dump in the bin next to the fish shop:
 Bug Meat (100)
Items must be collected while quest is active.Tip: Insects who drop bug meat are common on floors 15-29 of the Mines.



3,000g
 Quality Bobber recipe
Cutscene at The Beach

No


Tropical Fish

There's nothin' like tropical fishing... To keep the art alive, I'm offering a reward for whoever can bring in a good island haul.

 Willy

Ginger Island unlocked, Island Resort built

7 days


 Stingray (5)
 Blue Discus (5)
 Lionfish (5)


2,500g
 Deluxe Fish Tank

No


A Curious Substance

I seek an extremely rare and powerful goop, known as 'ectoplasm'. It can be found in the remains of slain ghosts. -M. Rasmodius

 Wizard

None

7 days

 Ectoplasm (1)


2,500g
 Mini-Obelisk recipe

No


Prismatic Jelly

I require assistance in tracking down the rare and dangerous prismatic slime, within the local caves. Bring me a jar of its prismatic jelly and you will be duly rewarded. -M. Rasmodius

 Wizard

None

7 days

 Prismatic Jelly (1)


5,000g
 Monster Musk recipe

No

List of Mr. Qi's Special Orders
On Ginger Island, after reaching 100 Golden Walnuts, is Mr. Qi's room. Inside, he provides a special order board similar to the one in town, which refreshes with two new quests to choose from every Monday. Quests will repeat over time, regardless of whether they have been successfully fulfilled in the past.  



Quest Name

Quest Text

Maximum Timeframe

Requirements

Rewards


Qi's Crop

I've hidden Qi Beans throughout the world. Find them, grow them, propagate them, and ship 500 Qi Fruit within the time limit.

28 days

Ship  Qi Fruit (500).

 100


Let's Play A Game

Think you can score 50,000 points in Junimo Kart endless mode? Prove it.

7 days

Score 50,000 points in Junimo Kart endless mode.

 10


Four Precious Stones

Find 4 Prismatic Shards. Place them in my collection box.

28 days

Collect  Prismatic Shard (4).
Unlike other quests, The Player does not have to earn them while the quest is active. They can use Prismatic Shards that have been previously obtained. 


 40


Qi's Hungry Challenge

Your task is to make it to level 100 in the Skull Cavern. However, you can't eat or drink anything while there.

7 days

Reach level 100 of the Skull Cavern without consuming any food or drink items. This can be done using Staircases. While this quest is active, Big Slimes will occasionally spawn with a heart in them that will recover 10 HP when dropped. Another strategy to regain health during the quest without eating food is to equip one or more Vampire Rings which restore 2 HP every time a monster is slain. Buffs from food or drinks (better prepared with Qi Seasoning) consumed before entering the cavern stay active for their normal duration.

 25


Qi's Cuisine

Ship 100,000g worth of freshly cooked items.

14 days

Ship 100,000g worth of freshly cooked items. Only items cooked after accepting the special order count, and these items have the word "Fresh" in front of their name.
Two easy ways of completing this special order are:

Buy or brew 669 Coffee and cook 223 Fresh Triple Shot Espresso.
Grow 1667 Wheat, turn them into Wheat Flour (or purchase 1667 wheat flour), then cook 1667 Fresh Bread.

 25


Qi's Kindness

Give 50 loved gifts in one week.

7 days

Give 50 loved gifts in one week. One gift can be given to each villager per day (a total of two gifts per week, per villager), and there are a total of 34 giftable villagers. Therefore, this quest can be completed in at least two days by gifting all 34 villagers on the first day, then 16 villagers the next day for a total of 50 gifts.


Tips 



If done long before this quest, building a Deluxe Coop filled with rabbits for their universally loved Rabbit's Foot is a great way to gift every giftable villager in town (with the exception of Penny). Other universally loved gifts can also be used, but are much harder to get in massive quantities.
Crystalariums can be used to make Diamonds, which are loved by 8 villagers. As for the other gems, all of them are loved by at least 3 villagers. The Prismatic Shard is a special case in that it is universally loved (apart from by Haley) but it cannot be replicated in a Crystalarium.
Other items which are loved by at least 3 villagers and are also relatively easy to stockpile are Cactus Fruit, Chocolate Cake, Iridium Bar, Pink Cake and Pumpkin.
Penny's hate of Rabbit's Foot can be easily bypassed by Poppy, as it is easy to produce and she is the only one who loves it, as everyone else hates it.


 40


Extended Family

Family members of the legendary fish have returned to the valley. You have three days to catch Ms. Angler, Glacierfish Jr., Son of Crimsonfish, Radioactive Carp, and Legend II.

3 days

Catch Ms. Angler, Glacierfish Jr., Son of Crimsonfish, Radioactive Carp, and Legend II. They can be caught in the same locations as the older generation of fish but the fishing bar is not distinctly marked as it is with the original legendary fish. It does not have to be raining for Legend II to appear, as the original Legend.
The same level requirements for the original legendary fish apply for these fish as well. This means that it is impossible to complete this quest without either reaching fishing level 10 or getting there temporarily via Buffs, as that is the level requirement necessary to hook a Legend II, as with the original Legend.


 20


Danger In The Deep

The mine elevator system has been reset, and new dangers have emerged from deep underground. Make it to the bottom of the mines in one week.

7 days

Reach the bottom of The Mines in the mountains. This can be done using Staircases. Note that this quest will also reset unlocked purchasable gear from the Adventurer's Guild.

 50


Skull Cavern Invasion

The Skull Cavern has been invaded by powerful monsters. Make it to level 100 in one piece.

7 days

Make it to level 100 of the Skull Cavern. This can be done using Staircases.

 40


Qi's Prismatic Grange

Find 100 each of red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and purple items. Place them in my collection box.

14 days

Place 100 x red, 100 x orange, 100 x yellow, 100 x green, 100 x blue, and 100 x purple items into Qi's collection box.Note that the quest is more strict than dye pots are. For a list of eligible items, see the bold items on the dye pots page. The items do not need to be collected while the quest is active. Deposited items will not be returned.


Tips 



The following items are easy to obtain, especially if the player has extra money:

Red: Spaghetti from The Stardrop Saloon (Cost: 240g x 100 = 24,000g)
Orange: Copper Ore from the Blacksmith (Cost: 150g x 100 = 15,000g)
Yellow: Sap, or Hay from Marnie's Ranch (Cost: 50g x 100 = 5,000g)
Green: Fiber, or Salad from The Stardrop Saloon (Cost: 220g x 100 = 22,000g)
Blue: Joja Cola from the vending machine in The Stardrop Saloon or at JojaMart (Cost: 75g x 100 = 7,500g)
Purple: Bug Meat


 35
.
Trivia
To fulfill Pierre's Prime Produce special order, you must harvest 25 gold-quality vegetables and you must place 25 gold-quality vegetables in Pierre's special bin. The shipped vegetables need not be the same items as the harvested ones, nor the same type of vegetables, nor all of matching types, nor even vegetables from the same season. All that matters is that you have counts of 25 harvests and 25 shipped.
There is an unimplemented quest reward in Data/Mail.xnb indicating Mayor Lewis would send 10,000g apparently after completing 100 Help Wanted quests.
If the player decides to purchase Joja Cola instead of Fishing for it, the cost for one can is 75g, exactly the same as the reward the NPC will give. Therefore, it will net 0 gold, although it might still be beneficial to do it for friendship points.
If you complete Jodi's Request and talk to Vincent the same day, Jodi will say that it will be useful for her yellow curry, and Vincent might say "Eww... My mom's making boiled beets again".
Bugs
Once the Dark Talisman quest appears in the Journal, visiting Krobus will make the quest disappear from the journal. It is not necessary to enter the Mutant Bug Lair, nor to get the talisman itself to complete the quest. However, these things still must be done to trigger the Goblin Problem quest, enter the Witch's Swamp, and meet the Henchman.
A divorced spouse may make a "Help Wanted" request.  When fulfilling the quest, the spouse will express gratitude before going back to the angry/hurt dialogue.  Fulfilling a quest for an ex-spouse does not grant any friendship points with the ex-spouse.
History
1.3.27: Added 3 quests related to Secret Notes:  A Winter Mystery, Strange Note, and Cryptic Note.
1.4: Fixed mail sent for "Aquatic Research" to list the correct reward (1,000g).  Fixed bugs with "A Winter Mystery":  Can now be triggered when exiting the farm from the bottom tiles, can now be triggered while riding a horse.  Removed gathering ore quest exploits (can no longer use existing ore from inventory or chest to fulfill quest).  Reaching level 25 of the Skull Cavern on the first visit now satisfies "Qi's Challenge".  Fixed help wanted quests to read "three times the market value" instead of "two times".
1.5: Added The Pirate's Wife quest. Added Special Orders board. Added Mr. Qi's Challenges.
1.5.4: Fixed bug that entering the Skull Cavern would complete the Danger in the Deep quest.



Retrieved from "https://stardewvalleywiki.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=Quests&oldid=142539"
Categories: ContentAchievementsHidden category: Spoilers



Navigation menu




Personal tools




Create accountLog in






Namespaces




PageDiscussion






Variants












Views




ReadView sourceView history






More









Search



















Navigation




Main pageRecent changesAdmin noticeboardHelp EditingRandom page





Official Links




Official SiteOfficial ForumsOfficial MerchandiseDiscordReddit





Tools




What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPrintable versionPermanent linkPage informationPage values





In other languages




DeutschEspañolFrançaisItaliano日本語한국어MagyarPortuguêsРусскийTürkçe中文






 This page was last edited on 24 October 2022, at 04:53.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike unless otherwise noted.


Privacy policy
About Stardew Valley Wiki
Disclaimers
Mobile view









