




Secret Notes - Stardew Valley Wiki





































Secret Notes

From Stardew Valley Wiki



Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Contents

1 Secret Note Sources
2 Secret Notes

2.1 Secret Note #1
2.2 Secret Note #2
2.3 Secret Note #3
2.4 Secret Note #4
2.5 Secret Note #5
2.6 Secret Note #6
2.7 Secret Note #7
2.8 Secret Note #8
2.9 Secret Note #9
2.10 Secret Note #10
2.11 Secret Note #11
2.12 Secret Note #12
2.13 Secret Note #13
2.14 Secret Note #14
2.15 Secret Note #15
2.16 Secret Note #16
2.17 Secret Note #17
2.18 Secret Note #18
2.19 Secret Note #19
2.20 Secret Note #20
2.21 Secret Note #21
2.22 Secret Note #22
2.23 Secret Note #23
2.24 Secret Note #24
2.25 Secret Note #25


3 References
4 History



See also: Journal Scraps
Secret Notes are collectible notes that can be unlocked by walking to the Bus Stop from The Farm during Winter between 6am and 4pm.  The player will see a cutscene in which a "Shadow Guy" (who could be Krobus) startles and runs away.  After seeing the cutscene, the quest "A Winter Mystery" is added to the player's journal.
The Shadow Guy's footsteps lead to a bush next to the playground, left of the Community Center.  If the player interacts with the bush, the Shadow Guy will pop out of it, apologize for stealing, give the player a Magnifying Glass, then run away. The Magnifying Glass gives the player the ability to find Secret Notes while digging, chopping trees, mining, fishing, or killing monsters. 
Once found, a Secret Note can be read by selecting it in the top row of inventory and right-clicking (as if consuming food).  This will add the note to the player's collection, and enable the Secret Notes collection tab on the player menu.
Some notes will list "Loved" gifts for certain characters, while others will have images depicting puzzle solutions.  Reading notes that list gift preferences will add the gifts to the villager's Gift Log on the Social tab of the player menu.
Secret Notes can be gifted, but they are all universally hated.

 The "Shadow Guy" after interacting with the bush on the character's left
 Secret Note
Secret Note Sources
The following table lists the different actions that can spawn a secret note.
The "Chance" column below indicates the probabilities that the game will attempt to spawn a secret note.  When such an attempt is made, the game performs a further check to see if it succeeds, based on the number of notes of the appropriate type (Journal Scraps on Ginger Island, regular Secret Notes elsewhere) that the player has already found.  If all notes have been found, the check fails.  Otherwise, the probability of success is a linear function of the number of notes found, where there's an 80% chance of success if no notes have been found, and a 12% chance of success if all but one have been found [1].



Activity

Chance


Weeds [2]

0.9%


Monsters [3]

3.3%


Chopping trees (Each Axe hit) [4]

0.5%


Fishing [5]

8% to replace trash


Artifact Spot [6]

11% (After artifact checks and winter forage checks)


Stone [7]

0.75%


Resource clump * [8]

5%


Giant crop [9]

100%


* Resource Clump = Large Stump, Large Log, Meteorite, or Boulder (inside or outside The Mines).

Secret Notes
Secret Note #1


Note 


It's a page from Abigail's Diary
'Things I love: the smell of carved pumpkin, keeping an amethyst under my pillow, chocolate cake, the thrill of spicy eel, and the comfort of Mom's blackberry cobbler (I like to eat!)'


Secret Note #2


Note 


It's Sam's holiday shopping list
Everyone's favorites
Sebastian: Frozen Tear, Sashimi
Penny: Emerald, Poppy
Vincent: Grape, Cranberry Candy
Mom: Crispy Bass, Pancakes
Dad: Risotto, Roasted Hazelnuts
Me: Cactus, Maple Bar, Pizza


Secret Note #3


Note 


It's written in Leah's handwriting
My idea of a perfect dinner would be salad, goat cheese, truffle, and wine. For dessert I'd need a poppyseed muffin. Yum! If someone gave me one of those things, I'd melt.


Secret Note #4


Note 


It's a note of Maru's
Parts still needed for my greatest invention yet!
*Gold Bar
*Iridium Bar
*Battery Pack
*Diamond
*Strawberries


Secret Note #5


Note 


It's Penny's handwriting:
I want to get everyone something they love!
Mom: Parsnip, Glazed Yams, NO BEER!
Jas: Fairy Rose, Plum Pudding
Vincent: Pink Cake, Grape
Mr. Mullner: Leek, Fried Mushroom
Granny Mullner: Beet, Tulip


Secret Note #6


Note 


Stardrop Saloon Special Orders
Mayor Lewis: Autumn's Bounty
(Double order of high-fiber bread on the side)
Marnie: Pumpkin Pie
(extra whipped cream!)
Demetrius: Bean Hotpot
(Make it spicy)
Caroline: Fish Taco
(she wants triple the sauce! Better throw in a few extra napkins...)


Secret Note #7


Note 


It's a page from someone's diary...
...There are only a few 'older' bachelors in town, and none of them are perfect! Harvey is really anxious and weak, but I know he would make a loyal and devoted husband. He likes coffee and pickles.
Elliott is a bit foppish and melodramatic, but he does have a nice chin. He likes crab cakes and pomegranates.
Shane is messy and anti-social. But I think his gruff exterior is a defense mechanism, insulating his softness from the world. He likes Beer, Pizza, and Pepper Poppers.


Secret Note #8


Note 


To Haley and Emily
Hope you two are doing well! We've sent you your favorite gifts: Pink Cake and Sunflowers for Haley, Gemstones and Wool for Emily!
-Love Mom and Dad


Secret Note #9


Note 


Alex's Strength Training Diet:
*Complete Breakfast
*Salmon Dinner
(I've learned to love this food... I can feel the protein!!)


Secret Note #10
Becomes available only after completing the "Qi's Challenge" quest. 



Note 


Someone iswaiting for youon level 100intheskull cavern...



Details 


Reading Secret Note #10 adds the "Cryptic Note" quest to the journal.  To fulfill the quest, reach level 100 of the Skull Cavern.  Once there, a cutscene will play, during which Mr. Qi will either congratulate the player for reaching level 100 using 10 or fewer staircases or say they are "clever" but not "honorable" for using 11 or more.  In either case, he rewards them with an "Iridium Snake Milk", which permanently increases their Health by 25.
Bug: Under circumstances which are not clear, it is possible to obtain Secret Note #10 and then read it (on the same game day), yet the saved game files do not record that it was received, nor read, and the quest is not added to the Journal. The game may behave as designed the next time the player gets Secret Note #10.


Secret Note #11


Note 




Secret Note #12


Note 


I've found some good things by looking in the garbage cans, on lucky days.
Sometimes you'll find the 'dish of the day' behind the saloon... usually fresh!
For dessert, I'll check the Mullners' can for cookies.
For treasures, check the cans by the blacksmith and museum.


Secret Note #13


Note 


12 o' clock noon SHARP. Last day of the season. Check the bush above the playground.



Solution 


At 12:00 PM, on day 28 of any season, interact with the bush located above the playground to obtain a Junimo Plush.

Secret Note #14


Note 


I hid something behind the community center.



Solution 


Behind the Community Center, hidden by the roof, against the wooden fence to the right there is a Stone Junimo statue which can be obtained with a pickaxe or a hoe.

Secret Note #15


Note 


Mermaid Show: 1-5-4-2-3



Solution 


During the Night Market, enter the boat at the far right to start the Mermaid Show. After the show, click on the shells in the order indicated (numbered left-to-right) to earn a Pearl. Only one Pearl may be earned from the Mermaid Boat per player per game.

Secret Note #16


Note 






Solution 


Dig one space using a Hoe to the right of the large boulder north of the Railroad tracks to get a Treasure Chest.

Secret Note #17


Note 






Solution 


Head to the area north of JojaMart next to the river and dig the farthest north tile on the Eastern side to get a Strange Doll (green). Be careful to stand close enough or the item may fall into the river.

Secret Note #18


Note 






Solution 


Go to the Calico Desert and use a hoe on the area to the South West of the bench on the South East area of the map to dig up a Strange Doll (yellow).

Secret Note #19


Note 






Solution 


This is a depiction of 1 Willow Lane with a series of arrows. Starting at the green square depicted, which is directly in front of the door to the house, follow each arrow until the character cannot move anymore.  First, walk left until they hit a permanent obstacle.  Then walk up until they hit an obstacle, and so on.
The path will lead the player around the house, through town, and ultimately to a secret Solid Gold Lewis statue hidden behind Mayor Lewis' house.  To find the statue and take it into the player's inventory, simply stand on the destination tile and right-click on the ground. 
Placing the statue anywhere in Pelican Town will result in an additional secret.




Additional Secret 


The Solid Gold Lewis statue can be placed anywhere in Pelican Town.  If the statue is not destroyed by a villager walking through it, the next day it will be replaced with a Rotten Plant, and the player will receive an unsigned letter in the mail containing 750g:



“

“In the future, I'd appreciate it very much if you refrained from placing my PRIVATE belongings in town for all to see!I'm very displeased!Take this money and never speak of my 'project' to anyone.”


The statue will then appear in Lewis' bedroom (90% chance) or Marnie's bedroom (10% chance).
The statue can be removed and placed in Pelican Town again and again, and each time it will be replaced by a Rotten Plant. The player will receive the unsigned letter only once though.


Secret Note #20


Note 






Solution 


This is a depiction of the town square. Starting in the center of the eye in town square, follow the directional arrows until the character hits a permanent obstacle. This path will bring them around town, up across the bridge to JojaMart, and ultimately to a truck parked beside JojaMart. Interacting with the truck will allow the player to speak to a truck driver who requests a Rabbit's Foot.  If the player has one in their inventory they can trade it for a Special Charm that permanently increases daily luck.

Secret Note #21


Note 






Solution 


At exactly 12:40 at night, interact with the large bush to the north west of the bridge out of Pelican Town to The Beach. Marnie and Lewis jump out of the bush. Now what were they doing in there!?
(Note: This can even be done on Winter 16, when Marnie is on screen returning from the Night Market.)


Secret Note #22


Note 


Greetings, <Farmer>...
Have you found my 'secret' in the dark tunnel?
I look forward to meeting you!
-Qi




Solution 


Go to the Bus Stop with a Battery Pack, and go west from the bus into The Tunnel. Place the Battery Pack into the box on the wall in the center of the Tunnel to start The Mysterious Qi quest.
Note that finding Secret Note #22 is not required to start the Mysterious Qi quest.


Secret Note #23


Note 


If yoo can reed dis... come to seecrit wuds. Pleez bring may-pal serrup.



Solution 


Reading Secret Note #23 adds the "Strange Note" quest to the journal.  To fulfill the quest, go to the Secret Woods between 6am and 7pm with Maple Syrup in inventory to trigger a cutscene in which a Bear shares his special knowledge of berries.  This permanently increases the sell price of Blackberries and Salmonberries by 3x.
After viewing the cutscene, a bear's paw icon labeled "Bear's Knowledge" will appear in the player's Wallet.


Secret Note #24


Note 


It's a page from M. Jasper's book:
...the creatures, known by some as "Forest Spirits" or "Junimos", are said to appear in abandoned buildings after they've "gone to seed".
As a general rule...when humans leave, and nature begins to reclaim her territory, the Junimos will undoubtedly appear.
Folk wisdom holds that the Junimos display some kind of resonant affinity with gemstones that are placed inside their little huts...
Of course, all these claims come from dubious, unverified sources...As far as I know, even the mere existence of these creatures has never been proven!




Solution 


Placing a foraged mineral, gem, or geode mineral in a Junimo Hut will alter the color of Junimos that harvest crops.  The Junimos will generally match the color of the mineral, including the changing prismatic color if a Prismatic Shard is used.
The game uses the same code to color Junimos as it does to dye clothing at the Sewing Machine.  A full table of colors can be found on the dyeing page.


Secret Note #25


Note 


I 'borrowed' a necklace from Mom, but lost it somewhere near the bath house... She’s going to freak out if she notices it’s missing!




Solution 


Fish in the water outside the Spa during spring, summer, or fall to find an Ornate Necklace.  While carrying the necklace, talk to Caroline for 50 Friendship points with her or to Abigail for 100 Friendship points with her.


References

↑  See GameLocation::tryToCreateUnseenSecretNote in the game code.

↑ See Object::cutWeed in the game code.

↑ See GameLocation::monsterDrop in the game code.

↑ See Tree::performToolAction in the game code.

↑ See GameLocation::getFish in the game code.

↑ See GameLocation::digUpArtifactSpot in the game code.

↑ See GameLocation::breakStone in the game code.

↑ See ResourceClump::performToolAction in the game code.

↑ See GiantCrop::performToolAction in the game code.


History
1.3.27: Introduced.
1.4: Fixed bug preventing shadow guy cutscene from triggering if exiting the farm from the bottom tile(s).  Added Secret Notes #24 and #25.  Reduced drop rate from breaking stones (from 1% to 0.75%).



Retrieved from "https://stardewvalleywiki.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=Secret_Notes&oldid=141456"
Category: Secrets



Navigation menu




Personal tools




Create accountLog in






Namespaces




PageDiscussion






Variants












Views




ReadView sourceView history






More









Search



















Navigation




Main pageRecent changesAdmin noticeboardHelp EditingRandom page





Official Links




Official SiteOfficial ForumsOfficial MerchandiseDiscordReddit





Tools




What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPrintable versionPermanent linkPage informationPage values





In other languages




DeutschEspañolFrançaisItaliano日本語한국어MagyarPortuguêsРусскийTürkçe中文






 This page was last edited on 6 September 2022, at 03:12.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike unless otherwise noted.


Privacy policy
About Stardew Valley Wiki
Disclaimers
Mobile view









