




The Farm - Stardew Valley Wiki








































The Farm

From Stardew Valley Wiki



Jump to navigation
Jump to search



The Farm











“

“You’ve inherited your grandfather’s old farm plot in Stardew Valley. Armed with hand-me-down tools and a few coins, you set out to begin your new life.”


Upon completing the Character Creation and the initial dialogue with Robin at the Bus Stop, this is the location the player is transported to. Inherited from their grandfather after quitting their job at Joja Corporation, it is their duty to restore the land and make use of it.

See Getting Started for more information
Contents

1 Farm Maps
2 Farmhouse

2.1 Marriage


3 Shipping Box
4 Mailbox
5 Crops

5.1 Fruit Trees
5.2 Crows


6 Buildings
7 Debris

7.1 Small Plants
7.2 Trees
7.3 Wood
7.4 Stone


8 Unique Areas

8.1 Greenhouse
8.2 The Cave
8.3 Grandpa's Shrine


9 Additional Information
10 Bugs
11 History


Farm Maps
Main article: Farm Maps
When creating a new character players can select from a number of different maps for their farm. Each of these maps offer unique benefits, and favor specific skills.
The player's farm house will appear the same from the outside on all maps, but begins with a uniquely styled interior after the maps theme. These house interiors offer different furniture pieces, wallpaper and flooring for each map.
Each map will change how the farm appears on the game map slightly. Most simply change how the farm area appears, but some change areas outside the farm on the map - the Forest farm extends the forest to the west toward the farm and the Riverland map connects to a river which flows south of the desert. These changes are only reflected on the world map; no changes are made to the actual game world outside the player's farm based on map selection.
After selecting a map it cannot be changed; characters are permanently tied to their map type once created. Each map takes up the same area, but there are different amounts of usable, farmable, buildable land on each.



Name

Description

Associated Skill


 Standard Farm


The majority of this map is farming land, ideal for crops and animals.

 Farming


 Riverland Farm


The majority of this map is water. Fishing is viable on this farm.
Players can catch the same fish that are found in Pelican Town.
Water significantly decreases the amount of farming area.

 Fishing


 Forest Farm


Many trees are found all around the map.
The following items spawn in the west area of the map:
Renewable Large Stumps (Hardwood)
Seasonal forage items, except in Winter (including non-standard item in each season: Morels in Spring; Common Mushrooms in Summer; Chanterelles, Purple Mushrooms, and Red Mushrooms in Fall)
Unique Weeds that always drops Mixed Seeds
Additional cliffs and ponds decrease the overall farming area.

 Foraging


 Hill-top Farm


A special mining area, in the southwest part of the map, spawns the following items:
Stones
Ore Nodes
Geode Nodes
The type of nodes that spawn is relative to the player's Mining level.
Additional cliffs and a stream decrease the overall farming area.

 Mining


 Wilderness Farm


Monsters spawn at night (scales with the player's Combat level).Wilderness Golems are unique to this map.
Additional cliffs and ponds decrease the overall farming area.

 Combat


 Four Corners Farm


Multiplayer Focused map
Has 4 unique areas, forest, standard, lake and hilltop.

Multiplayer


 Beach Farm


Includes good spots for fishing.
Fish caught on this map will be Ocean Fish.
Most of the ground is sand, which cannot be watered by sprinklers.
Supply crates occasionally wash up on shore.

 Fishing Foraging

Farmhouse
 A tier 3 House
Main article: Farmhouse
The Farmhouse is the only form of player housing. By default, the house features a TV, a single bed, a picture, a table and chair, decorative dishes, and a fireplace. The farmhouse can be upgraded 3 times, once by paying 10,000g and giving 450 Wood to Robin, and again by paying 50,000g and giving 150 Hardwood to Robin. The final upgrade adds a cellar which can age wine and cheese in Casks; it costs 100,000g.  All upgrades takes approximately 2 full days to complete.

Marriage
Main article: Marriage
Upon completion of the marriage ceremony, the person that the player marries will have a portion of their room moved into the right side of their house. However, this requires at least a tier 2 farmhouse.

Shipping Box
Main article: Shipping
The shipping box is a rectangular wooden box located to the right of the farmhouse. Items with value can be placed inside the box (excluding tools) and will be sold overnight with the total earnings from selling the items displayed once the player goes to bed for the night. The latest item placed in the box can be recovered, but items placed before the latest item may not be recovered. For example, if the player places 10 corn in, it may be recovered before shipping out for the night, however, if the player places an eggplant on top of the corn, only the eggplant may be recovered, but the corn reaches its inevitable fate of being sold.

Mailbox
Main article: Letters
The mailbox is located to the bottom-right corner of the farmhouse. It is used to receive and read incoming letters. Any unread mail will be indicated by the display of a floating speech bubble containing an envelope icon hovering over the mailbox.

Crops
 Visual representation of the protection range of a scarecrow
Main article: Crops
Seeds for crops can be bought from Pierre in his shop, with his selection correlated to the active season, or obtained from completing Community Center bundles or Museum rewards. However, these seeds can only be planted on the farm or in the Greenhouse. In order to begin the process of growing a crop, the player must find a clear 1x1 area to till with a hoe. Once tilled, the seed may be planted and watered. All crops must be watered daily in order to continue growing. Once a crop is fully grown, it may be harvested. Most crops grow once, and the entire plant is harvested, but for crops like berries and corn, these crops only have their edible portions harvested, allowing the crop to grow back faster than when it was planted. However, once the season for the crop ends, it will wither and die immediately.

Fruit Trees
Main article: Fruit Trees
Fruit Tree seeds can be bought from Pierre's Shop and occasionally from the Traveling Cart and sowed on the farm in the center of a 3x3 square. All fruit trees take approximately 28 days to mature completely, and, depending on the season, will produce 1 fruit per day. Fruit trees do not produce fruit during winter.

Crows
Crows may randomly spawn on the farm each morning there are crops planted.  Crows destroy crops by eating them. To avoid this, players may craft Scarecrows and place them within range of growing crops.  Collectible Rarecrows can also be used to scare off crows.

Buildings
Main article: Carpenter's Shop
Buildings can be purchased from Robin in the Carpenter's Shop at varying prices. Farm buildings are required to house animals. Both coops and barn buildings have upgrades, and the base building must be purchased before the upgrade. Each of these buildings can be built multiple times to support more animals.
Tip: It's a good idea to build a silo before purchasing animals to place in farm buildings, so there is a place to store hay for them to eat.

Debris
Farm debris is a naturally regenerating element on the Farm.  It includes rocks, twigs, and weeds.

Small Plants


Image
Name
Tool Required
Drops
Propagation




Weed

Any

 Fiber (0-1)  Mixed Seeds (0-1)

Respawns randomly; spreads destructively




Grass

Scythe

 Hay (0-1) (only if Silo exists)

Respawns randomly; Spreads non-destructively

Trees
Main article: Trees
Apart from Fruit Trees, there are 3 types of common trees that grow in Stardew Valley: Maple Trees, Oak Trees, and Pine Trees.



Tree

Tool Required

Drops

Propagation


Mature Maple Tree

 Axe

 Wood (16-31),  Sap (6),  Maple Seed (0-2),  Hardwood (if Lumberjack)

Maple seeds spread non-destructively


Mature Oak Tree

 Axe

 Wood (16-31),  Sap (6),  Acorn (0-2),  Hardwood (if Lumberjack)

Acorns spread non-destructively


Mature Pine Tree

 Axe

 Wood (16-31),  Sap (6),  Pine Cone (0-2),  Hardwood (if Lumberjack)

Pine cones spread non-destructively


Tree Seedling  (stage 4)

 Axe

 Wood (4-5)

Grows to next stage


Tree Seedling (stages 2-3)

Any

 Wood (0-1)

Grows to next stage


Fallen Seed

 Axe Pickaxe Hoe

 (1)

Grows to stage 2 seedling

Note: Seeds will not drop until Foraging Skill Level 1 is acquired.  Tree seedlings that have not yet grown beyond their first stage will drop nothing.

Wood
Apart from trees, wooden debris is split into three types, two of which produce Hardwood.



Image

Name

Tool Required

Drops

Propagation




Twig

 Axe

 Wood (1)

Spawns randomly; spreads destructively




Large Stump

 Copper Axe

 Hardwood (2-3)

Only on Forest Farm, Four Corners and Beach Farm




Large Log

 Steel Axe

 Hardwood (8-10)

Never

Stone
Main article: Stone
The farm's rock debris is not a primary way of farming stone (see The Mines). Stone debris is split into two types, both dropping stone.



Image

Name

Tool Required

Drops

Propagation




Rock

 Pickaxe

 Stone (1)

Spawns randomly; spreads destructively




Boulder

 Steel Pickaxe

 Stone (15)

Never

Unique Areas








Initial

Repaired


There are three unique areas on The Farm (not including player placeable buildings,e.g., Barn, The Coop, etc.). 

Greenhouse
Main article: Greenhouse
The Greenhouse in the beginning is unusable, as the player seems to assume it was destroyed by a storm. Completing the Pantry section of the Community Center will cause the greenhouse to be restored, and be of use to the player. It features a 12x10 plot for crops, and a water trough to refill the Watering can. Any seeds from any season may be planted here, even during the winter, giving the player a large advantage. Buildings may not be placed in the greenhouse.

The Cave
 Mushroom boxes
Main article: The Cave
Once total earnings reach 25,000g, Demetrius meets the player at their door the next day. He states that he is working on research and asks if they wouldn't mind if he used their cave. He gives the player the option to either have fruit bats in the cave, or to install 6 mushroom boxes. Fruit bats will leave random fruit in the cave overnight, while mushroom boxes will produce one of five different types of mushrooms on a regular basis.

Grandpa's Shrine
Main article: Grandpa



“

“Wait for my return at the dawn of the 3rd year.”


Grandpa's Shrine is a landmark located in the northwestern corner of the farm. Upon encountering the shrine, a note is present that reads "Wait for my return at the dawn of the 3rd year". Upon reaching the dawn of the 3rd year, a manifestation of grandpa appears and evaluates the player's performance.
After their third year of being on the farm and his initial evaluation, if the player got less than four candles, his shrine will still be active.




“

“ There's a diamond-shaped slot in the shrine... was that always there?”


If the player places a Diamond into Grandpa's Shrine, he will reappear and re-evaluate the farm the next day. He will apologize for being too harsh and promptly give them a new answer if the player made some changes. Interacting with the shrine after this event will produce a Statue Of Perfection, if all four candles are lit.
After achieving Perfection, a stone carving of a Stardrop will appear above the shrine.

Additional Information
 See: Animals
 See: Artisan Goods
Bugs
There is a uncommon chance that when waking up after sleeping in the bed (2nd upgrade), the sleeping sprite will still be active.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added four new farm maps to character creation, each favoring different skills.
1.4: Added new multiplayer focused map: Four Corners Farm.
1.5: Added Beach Farm. Once unlocked, the Greenhouse can now be moved at Robin’s shop. A stone carving of a Stardrop will now appear above Grandpa's Shrine after achieving Perfection.


Locations


Locations

Backwoods • Beach • Bus Stop • Calico Desert • Cindersap Forest • Farm • Farm Cave • Farm Pond •  Graveyard • Ginger Island • Minecart • Mines • Mountain • Mutant Bug Lair • Pelican Town • Quarry • Quarry Mine • Railroad • Secret Woods • Sewers • Skull Cavern • Summit • Tunnel • Volcano Dungeon • Witch's Swamp




Retrieved from "https://stardewvalleywiki.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=The_Farm&oldid=141227"
Categories: LocationsGameplayHidden category: Bugs tested in an unknown version



Navigation menu




Personal tools




Create accountLog in






Namespaces




PageDiscussion






Variants












Views




ReadView sourceView history






More









Search



















Navigation




Main pageRecent changesAdmin noticeboardHelp EditingRandom page





Official Links




Official SiteOfficial ForumsOfficial MerchandiseDiscordReddit





Tools




What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPrintable versionPermanent linkPage informationPage values





In other languages




DeutschEspañolFrançaisItaliano日本語한국어MagyarPortuguêsРусскийTürkçe中文






 This page was last edited on 29 August 2022, at 18:28.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike unless otherwise noted.


Privacy policy
About Stardew Valley Wiki
Disclaimers
Mobile view









