




Trees - Stardew Valley Wiki





































Trees

From Stardew Valley Wiki



Jump to navigation
Jump to search



Warning: Spoilers
This page or section contains unmarked spoilers from update 1.5 of Stardew Valley.  Mobile players may want to avoid or be cautious toward reading this article.

This article is about non-fruit trees. For Fruit Trees, see the Fruit Trees page.
Trees that do not yield fruit are of two types: common and special.  Common trees (Maple, Oak, Pine, and Mahogany) are valuable natural resources, being the primary source of multiple products: Wood for construction and crafting, Sap, Maple Syrup, Oak Resin, and Pine Tar.  Special trees have their own unique characteristics.

Contents

1 Common Trees

1.1 Harvesting
1.2 Growth Cycle
1.3 Outside the Farm
1.4 Lightning
1.5 Maple Tree
1.6 Oak Tree
1.7 Pine Tree
1.8 Mahogany Tree


2 Special Trees

2.1 Mushroom Tree
2.2 Palm Tree


3 References
4 History


Common Trees
Harvesting
A mature tree (stage 5) can be shaken for a seed (see Growth Cycle), tapped for syrup, or felled by chopping it repeatedly with an Axe. When chopped down, trees always fall left or right away from the player (if applicable) and produce wood or seeds in the direction of the fall. When chopped from above or below, the player should try to stand off-center on the tile to clearly ensure the direction. If the tree is adjacent to a wall, hug the wall to ensure it falls into playing space. If the tree falls into or near water, the items it drops may disappear into the water.  High Magnetism is very helpful for quickly collecting the widely-scattered products. The products (not including those from the stump) are:[1]

 Wood (12-16), except Mahogany trees.  The possible 4 bonus pieces of wood are randomly added, based on Luck and Foraging skill.  For players with the Forester profession, the amounts are 25% larger (i.e., 15-20 pieces).
 Hardwood (10) for Mahogany trees.  For players with the Forester profession, the amounts are 25% larger (i.e., 12 or 13 pieces).
 Sap (5)
 Maple Seed (0-2),  Acorn (0-2),  Pine Cone (0-2) or  Mahogany Seed (0-1), depending on tree species.  These are in addition to the 1 possible "loose" seed that may fall when shaking the tree.  All seeds are only possible if Foraging skill is at least 1.
 Hardwood, if the player has the Lumberjack profession.  The amount of wood is random: 50% chance for 0 pieces; 25% 1; 12.5% 2; 6.25% 3; 3.125% 4; etc. (without any fixed maximum number).
12 Foraging experience points.
When tapped, a tree cannot be chopped down or shaken for a seed, unless the tapper is first removed.
A stump is left behind after a mature tree is chopped down.  Removing the stump with an Axe yields:[2]

 Wood (4-9)
In single-player, 5 is the minimum, plus 4 bonus pieces are randomly added, based on Luck and Foraging skill.  For Foresters, the total amount is 6-11 wood.
In multiplayer, the amount is fixed at 4 wood (5 for Foresters)
 Sap (1)
1 Foraging experience point.
At stage 4, tree seedlings can be chopped down with an Axe.  Products are:[3]

 Wood (4) (5 for Foresters)
At stages 2 and 3, tree seedlings can be removed using an Axe, Hoe, Pickaxe, Scythe, or Weapon. If an Axe is not used, no products are dropped.[4]

 Wood (1) may be dropped if an Axe is used.  The percent chance is ten times the player's Foraging level (i.e., guaranteed at level 10), including Buffs.
At stage 1, tree seeds can be removed from the ground using an Axe, Hoe, or Pickaxe.  The only product is the seed.

Growth Cycle
Each day, there is a 5% chance that a mature tree will generate a "loose" seed.  This seed will be dropped if the player shakes the tree.  Normally the loose seed matches the mature tree species, with one exception: for the last two weeks of Fall, shaking a Maple Tree produces a Hazelnut instead of a Maple Seed.[5] Note that before any tree seeds become available, the player must reach Foraging Level 1, then sleep overnight and receive the skill level-up notification.
In addition, mature trees (including stumps) on the farm have a 15% chance each night of trying to spontaneously plant one seed in the ground.[6]  One tile is randomly chosen, up to 3 tiles away from the parent tree in any direction.  The seed becomes "planted", creating a new stage 1 tree, only if the tile is a valid location for a new tree. In particular, the chosen tile must be empty; trees will not destroy paths or crops.
Planted seeds grow through four stages before reaching maturity.  Tree seeds do not require watering, nor do they require the surrounding land to be empty (unlike Fruit Trees): the land can be fully paved; trees can planted next to water or other features.  As long as the seed can be placed in the ground, it can grow.  The only limitation on tree seedling growth is that two mature trees cannot be side by side: a seedling will never grow past stage 4 if there is a mature tree in any of its eight adjacent tiles.
With Tree Fertilizer, trees will grow one stage every night, except at stage 4, which takes two days.  In total, a fertilized seed takes five days to reach maturity.  Fertilized seeds and seedlings will grow even in Winter; otherwise, trees do not grow at all in winter.
Without fertilizer, seedlings have a 20% chance each night of growing to the next stage, except at stage 4, where seedlings spend twice as long. The median growth time from seed to maturity is 24 days, although individual tree growth times will vary considerably.  Statistically, 90% of seeds should reach maturity in 38 days (excluding winter), and 99% in 55 days.

Outside the Farm
Common trees in Cindersap Forest, The Mountain, Railroad, Quarry, Bus Stop and Backwoods can all be chopped down, tapped, or shaken for a seed. However, players cannot interact with the trees in Town.
Outside the farm, trees never spontaneously spread planted seeds.  However, the player can plant seeds in any tillable ground (as long as the ground is un-tilled), which will go through the standard growth stages.
Any pre-existing trees that are chopped down outside the farm, and the stumps removed, have a 20% chance per night of reappearing as a stage 3 seedling (even in winter).  After reappearing, it will grow as normal into a mature tree.  If the stump is not removed, the tree will not regrow.

Lightning
Unlike Fruit Trees, which produce Coal for 3-4 days after being hit by lightning, common trees hit by lightning are destroyed, leaving only a stump (and some wood or sap) behind.

Maple Tree
Maple Trees grow from  Maple Seeds. When tapped, they yield  Maple Syrup every 9 days (4-5 days Heavy Tapper). Maple trees have a chance to drop a Hazelnut during the last 2 weeks of Fall. 
Maple Syrup is the most profitable of the 3 types of common tree syrup.



Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Stage 4

Stage 5 - Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter

Stump - Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter












   


Oak Tree
Oak Trees grow from  Acorns. When tapped, they yield  Oak Resin every 7-8 days (3-4 days Heavy Tapper).



Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Stage 4

Stage 5 - Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter

Stump - Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter












   


Pine Tree
Pine Trees grow from  Pine Cones. When tapped, they yield  Pine Tar every 5-6 days (2-3 days Heavy Tapper).



Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Stage 4

Stage 5 - Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter

Stump - Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter












   


Mahogany Tree
Mahogany Trees grow from  Mahogany Seeds. When tapped, they yield  Sap every day, with both normal Tapper and Heavy Tapper.



Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Stage 4

Stage 5 - Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter

Stump - Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter












   


Special Trees
Special trees have uncommon properties and yields.

Mushroom Tree
Mushroom Trees are a rare occurrence on the farm.   Each Fall, there is a chance for a fully grown untapped common tree (or stump) to change into a Mushroom Tree (or stump) during the night. A Mushroom Tree can also be grown from a Mushroom Tree Seed. These seeds do not fall from Mushroom Trees when shaken or chopped - they can only be obtained from Qi's Walnut Room. Mushroom Trees do spread like other trees, and yield Red or Purple Mushrooms when chopped down.  They can be tapped and will yield  Common,  Red, and  Purple mushrooms over time.
Mushroom Trees hit by lightning will be reduced to a stump and leave mushrooms behind, in the same way as common trees leave wood/sap behind.  If the stump is left alone, the following Spring, it will regrow.



Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3

Stage 4

Stage 5

Stump















Palm Tree
Palm Trees are found in The Calico Desert and on Ginger Island.  They do not drop seeds, but may occasionally drop a Coconut (and can also drop a Golden Coconut if the tree is on Ginger Island) when chopped down or shaken. They cannot be tapped.



Stage 1

Stage 2

Stage 3 - Desert / Island

Stump






 




References

↑ See Tree::extraWoodCalculator and Tree::tickUpdate in the game code.

↑ See Tree::extraWoodCalculator and Tree::performTreeFall in the game code.

↑ See Tree::performBushDestroy in the game code.

↑ See Tree::performSproutDestroy in the game code.

↑ See Tree::shake and Tree::dayUpdate in the game code.

↑ See Tree::dayUpdate in the game code.


History
1.1: You can no longer tap a stump.
1.3.27: Breaking small tree stumps now provides +1 Foraging XP.
1.4: Fixed bug that caused a stage 2-3 sapling to make a scythe sound when watered.  Fixed bug that prevented trees from dropping seeds and seeds disappearing when harvested if a Foraging level up occurred during the day.  Planting tree seeds outside the farm no longer requires the spot to be tilled.  (This also prevents planting in non-tillable areas dug up by Artifact Spots in Winter).
1.5: Added Mahogany Tree.


Trees


Trees

Mahogany Tree • Maple Tree • Oak Tree • Palm Tree • Pine Tree


Fruit Trees

Apple Tree • Apricot Tree • Banana Tree • Cherry Tree • Mango Tree • Orange Tree • Peach Tree • Pomegranate Tree


Seeds

Acorn • Mahogany Seed • Maple Seed • Mushroom Tree Seed • Pine Cone


Fruit

Apple • Apricot • Banana • Cherry • Mango • Orange • Peach • Pomegranate


Misc

Large Log • Large Stump • Mushroom Tree • Tea Bush





Retrieved from "https://stardewvalleywiki.com/mediawiki/index.php?title=Trees&oldid=138284"
Category: TreesHidden category: Spoilers



Navigation menu




Personal tools




Create accountLog in






Namespaces




PageDiscussion






Variants












Views




ReadView sourceView history






More









Search



















Navigation




Main pageRecent changesAdmin noticeboardHelp EditingRandom page





Official Links




Official SiteOfficial ForumsOfficial MerchandiseDiscordReddit





Tools




What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPrintable versionPermanent linkPage informationPage values





In other languages




DeutschEspañolFrançaisItaliano日本語한국어MagyarPortuguêsРусскийTürkçe中文






 This page was last edited on 1 June 2022, at 02:43.
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike unless otherwise noted.


Privacy policy
About Stardew Valley Wiki
Disclaimers
Mobile view









